The major focus of this work is on William James's insistence that unification should not be explored in the abstract as if it were one thing. Rather, unity should be understood in terms of its major kinds. There are unities and pluralities with respect to such topics as values, methods, causes, and prescriptions about what to read and study. This article explores James's mature position on unification as set forth in his major psychological and philosophical works and letters. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).

The effects of antipsychotics on negative symptoms are limited. The most appropriate approach in the treatment of schizophrenia is the integration of drug therapy with psychological and social interventions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of art therapy and psychosocial skills training (PSST) in the treatment of schizophrenia. A total of 15 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia according to the criteria in DSM-5 and 12 patient relatives were included in the study. The patients were randomly divided into 2 groups, 7 were included in the art therapy program and 8 were included in the PSST program for schizophrenia. 90-minute sessions of art therapy and PSST were carried out once a week for 17 weeks. Participants with schizophrenia were evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Social Functioning Scale (SFS) and the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia and the relatives were given Beck Depression Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory and Zarit Burden Interview. There was a significant decrease in the PANSS negative symptoms, PANSS general psychopathology, SFS pro-social activities and SFS recreation scores in both groups, while the SFS social withdrawal scores decreased significantly only in the art therapy group. In the PANSS negative symptoms subscale, passive social withdrawal, difficulty in abstract thinking, lack of spontaneity and flow of conversation and stereotyped thinking scores were significantly lower in the art therapy group. In the PSST group only the score for difficulty in abstract thinking declined significantly. The findings of the present study suggest that art therapy and PSST have positive effects on the improvement of negative symptoms as well as improvements in social and cognitive functionality in schizophrenia.

Although the relationship between schizophrenia and disability is well established, the association between the symptoms of the disorder and functional domains remains unclear. The current study explored the nuances of the relationship between symptoms and domains of functioning in a sample of 1127 patients with schizophrenia. We assessed the symptoms of schizophrenia with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and psychosocial functioning with the mini-ICF-APP (mini-International Classification of Functioning Rating for Limitations of Activities and Participation in Psychological Disorders). The mean PANSS score was 94.28 (27.20), and the mean mini-ICF-APP score was 25.25 (8.96), both of which are indicative of severe symptom load and impairment. We were able to show a strong relationship and overlap between symptoms and disability in patients with schizophrenia. We identified several symptoms related to functional impairment. Deficits in judgment and abstract thinking contribute to impairment through poor adherence (to routines and compliance with rules) and difficulties in planning and organizing. We believe that in schizophrenia, symptoms and their interactions constitute a disorder beyond any single manifestation. Furthermore, we suggest that cognitive testing and cognitive treatment should become part of the standard of care for patients with schizophrenia.

In the wake of the replication crisis, social and personality psychologists have increased attention to power analysis and the adequacy of sample sizes. In this article, we analyze current controversies in this area, including choosing effect sizes, why and whether power analyses should be conducted on already-collected data, how to mitigate the negative effects of sample size criteria on specific kinds of research, and which power criterion to use. For novel research questions, we advocate that researchers base sample sizes on effects that are likely to be cost-effective for other people to implement (in applied settings) or to study (in basic research settings), given the limitations of interest-based minimums or field-wide effect sizes. We discuss two alternatives to power analysis, precision analysis and sequential analysis, and end with recommendations for improving the practices of researchers, reviewers, and journal editors in social-personality psychology. Recently, social-personality psychology has been criticized for basing some of its conclusions on studies with low numbers of participants. As a result, power analysis, a mathematical way to ensure that a study has enough participants to reliably "detect" a given size of psychological effect, has become popular. This article describes power analysis and discusses some controversies about it, including how researchers should derive assumptions about effect size, and how the requirements of power analysis can be applied without harming research on hard-to-reach and marginalized communities. For novel research questions, we advocate that researchers base sample sizes on effects that are likely to be cost-effective for other people to implement (in applied settings) or to study (in basic research settings). We discuss two alternatives to power analysis, precision analysis and sequential analysis, and end with recommendations for improving the practices of researchers, reviewers, and journal editors in social-personality psychology.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Psychiatric hospitals have input from a range of professionals, including Clinical Psychologists. Most evidence used to guide what Clinical Psychologists do is based on their work with individuals rather than staff teams. Some evidence shows working with staff teams is important, but most of this is based on interviews rather than measuring the impact using numbers and statistics. The current study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of staff-level interventions provided by a Psychology team within a psychiatric inpatient setting. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Training sessions were effective at increasing staff levels of confidence and understanding in psychological approaches, and the perceived usefulness of the session to their practice. Case discussion sessions were effective at increasing staff levels of understanding a service user, compassion towards the service user, perceived opportunities for change with the service user, their perceived skills to work with the service user and their perception of the usefulness of the session to their practice. Reflective practice sessions were effective at providing a space for learning, sharing ideas and reflecting. Other interventions were highly valued by nursing staff. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Staff-level interventions are effective and valued by mental health nursing staff and should be considered in allocation of psychology resources. Interventions improved staff psychological thinking which could positively impact service user experience. There is potential for people with lived experience to participate in these interventions, which could facilitate the therapeutic relationship and reduce restrictive practices. INTRODUCTION: The role of Psychologists in psychiatric inpatient settings is well established and involves intervention at various levels; however, quantitative exploration of the effectiveness of staff-level interventions is lacking. The aim of the study was to examine the effectiveness of a variety of staff-level interventions provided by a Psychology team within a psychiatric inpatient setting. The evaluation used a mixed methods approach incorporating pre-post quantitative data and post-intervention feedback. Additional data were collected via survey. Results indicated all staff-level interventions were effective in achieving their aims and were highly valued by staff. Qualitative data supported the quantitative findings and showed tentative suggestion of a change to clinical practice. Indirect psychology provision was found to significantly impact a range of staff attitudes and was highly valued by the staff team, supporting previous qualitative findings in psychiatric inpatient settings. Further quantitative evidence of the impact of staff-level interventions should be sought. Staff-level interventions are effective and valued by mental health nursing staff and should be considered in allocation of psychology resources. Furthermore, there is potential for people with lived experience to participate in these interventions, which could facilitate the therapeutic relationship and reduce restrictive practices, however this requires future research.

The organizational studies' literature suggests that employees' expressions of voice and silence may be distinct concepts with different predictors. Organizational researchers also argue that both employees' voice and silence are related to burnout; however, these relationships have not been adequately examined in the healthcare context. This study aimed to investigate the relationships among nurses' perceived impact, psychological safety, voice behaviors, and burnout using a theoretical model. Voice behaviors were conceptualized as voice and silence. A cross-sectional, correlational study design was employed. Study data were collected in 34 general hospitals in South Korea. A total of 1255 registered nurses providing direct care to patients were included in this study. Using a convenience sampling method, a web-based survey was conducted to obtain data. All variables were measured using standardized instruments. A structural equation modeling analysis was employed to test a hypothesized model positing that perceived impact and psychological safety have both direct and indirect effects on nurse burnout through voice and silence. The response rate was 72.8 %. The findings supported the hypothesized model. Both perceived impact and psychological safety were positively related to expressions of voice, but both were negatively associated with silence. We also found that perceived impact was more strongly associated with voice than with silence, while psychological safety had a stronger impact on silence than on voice. Furthermore, voice reduced burnout, while silence increased it. Finally, perceived impact reduced burnout through voice (β = -0.10, 95 % confidence interval [-0.143, -0.059]) and silence (β = -0.04, 95 % confidence interval [-0.058, -0.014]), and psychological safety also decreased burnout through voice (β = -0.04, 95 % confidence interval [-0.057, -0.016]) and silence (β = -0.07, 95 % confidence interval [-0.101, -0.033]). Additional analyses revealed that prohibitive voice and silence significantly mediated the associations between psychological safety and burnout and perceived impact and burnout, but the mediating role of promotive voice was not statistically significant. It is important to recognize that voice and silence are distinct concepts. Moreover, to reduce nurse burnout, nurse managers and hospital administrators should develop separate strategies for promoting nurses' perceived impact and psychological safety, as their influences on voice and silence differ. Not applicable. Voice and silence both influence nurse burnout. Separate strategies should be applied to voice and silence, as they are different concepts.

The target article attempted to draw connections between broad swaths of evidence by noticing a common thread: Abstract, symbolic, compositional codes, that is, language-of-thoughts (LoTs). Commentators raised concerns about the evidence and offered fascinating extensions to areas we overlooked. Here we respond and highlight the many specific empirical questions to be answered in the next decade and beyond.

On behalf of the Canadian Association of Psychosocial Oncology, we are pleased to present the Abstracts from the 2023 Annual Conference, titled "Co-designing Psychosocial Oncology: Optimizing Outcomes for All". The conference was held in Montreal from 20 June 2023 to 22 June 2023. This conference brought together key stakeholders including multidisciplinary professionals from nursing, psychology, psychiatry, social work, spiritual care, nutrition, medicine, rehabilitation medicine, occupational health and radiation therapy for both adult and pediatric populations. Participants included clinicians, researchers, educators in cancer care, community-based organizations and patient representatives. Patients, caregivers and family members presented abstracts that spoke to their role in managing cancer experiences and care. Over one hundred (100) abstracts were selected for presentation as symposia, 20-min oral presentations, 10-min oral presentations, 90-min workshops and poster presentations. We congratulate all the presenters on their research work and contribution.

The human infant brain automatically extracts number from the environment. A new study recovers an abstract code for number from the brain electrophysiology of sleeping infants.

Up to one third of all stroke patients suffer from one or more psychosocial impairments. Recognition and treatment of these impairments are essential in improving psychosocial well-being after stroke. Although nurses are ideally positioned to address psychosocial well-being, they often feel insecure about providing the needed psychosocial care. Therefore, we expect that providing nurses with better knowledge to deliver this care could lead to an improvement in psychosocial well-being after stroke. Currently it is not known which interventions are effective and what aspects of these interventions are most effective to improve psychosocial well-being after stroke. To identify potentially effective interventions - and intervention components - which can be delivered by nurses to improve patients' psychosocial well-being after stroke. A systematic review and data synthesis of randomized controlled trials and quasi experimental studies was conducted. Papers were included according to the following criteria: 1) before-after design, 2) all types of stroke patients, 3) interventions that can be delivered by nurses, 4) the primary outcome(s) were psychosocial. PubMed, Embase, PsychInfo, CINAHL and Cochrane library were searched (August 2019-April 2022). Articles were selected based on title, abstract, full text and quality. Quality was assessed by using Joanna Briggs Institute checklists and a standardized data extraction form developed by Joanna Brigss Institute was used to extract the data. In total 60 studies were included, of which 52 randomized controlled trials, three non-randomized controlled trials, four quasi-experimental studies, and one randomized cross-over study. Nineteen studies had a clear psychosocial content, twenty-nine a partly psychosocial content, and twelve no psychosocial content. Thirty-nine interventions that showed positive effects on psychosocial well-being after stroke were identified. Effective intervention topics were found to be mood, recovery, coping, emotions, consequences/problems after stroke, values and needs, risk factors and secondary prevention, self-management, and medication management. Active information and physical exercise were identified as effective methods of delivery. The results suggest that interventions to improve psychosocial well-being should include the intervention topics and methods of delivery that were identified as effective. Since effectiveness of the intervention can depend on the interaction of intervention components, these interactions should be studied. Nurses and patients should be involved in the development of such interventions to ensure it can be used by nurses and will help improve patients' psychosocial well-being. This study was supported by the Taskforce for Applied Research SIA (RAAK.PUB04.010). This review was not registered.

Clothing, hairstyle, makeup, and accessories influence first impressions. However, target dress is notably absent from current theories and models of person perception. We discuss three reasons for this minimal attention to dress in person perception: high theoretical complexity, incompatibility with traditional methodology, and underappreciation by the groups who have historically guided research in person perception. We propose a working model of person perception that incorporates target dress alongside target face, target body, context, and perceiver characteristics. Then, we identify four types of inferences for which perceivers rely on target dress: social categories, cognitive states, status, and aesthetics. For each of these, we review relevant work in social cognition, integrate this work with existing dress research, and propose future directions. Finally, we identify and offer solutions to the theoretical and methodological challenges accompanying the psychological study of dress. Why is it that people often agonize over what to wear for a job interview, a first date, or a party? The answer is simple: They understand that others' first impressions of them rely on their clothing, hairstyle, makeup, and accessories. Many people might be surprised, then, to learn that psychologists' theories about how people form first impressions of others have little to say about how people dress. This is true in part because the meaning of clothing is so complex and culturally dependent. We propose a working model of first impressions that identifies four types of information that people infer from dress: people's social identities, mental states, status, and aesthetic tastes. For each of these, we review existing research on clothing, integrate this research with related work from social psychology more broadly, and propose future directions for research.

Social psychology's disconnect from the vital and urgent questions of people's lived experiences reveals limitations in the current paradigm. We draw on a related perspective in social psychology We propose that social psychology should focus on "world-making" in two senses. First, people are future-oriented and often are guided more by what could be than what is. Second, social psychology can contribute to this future orientation by supporting people's world-making and also critically reflecting on the role of social psychological research in world-making. We unpack the philosophical assumptions, methodological procedures, and ethical considerations that underpin a social psychology of and for world-making. Social psychological research, whether it is intended or not, contributes to the societies and cultures in which we live, and thus it cannot be a passive bystander of world-making. By embracing social psychology of and for world-making and facing up to the contemporary societal challenges upon which our collective future depends will make social psychology more humble but also more relevant.

Research concerning concepts in the cognitive sciences has been dominated by the information-processing approach, which has resulted in a certain narrowing of the range of questions and methods of investigation. Recent trends have sought to broaden the scope of such research, but they have not yet been integrated within a theoretical framework that would allow us to reconcile new perspectives with the insights already obtained. In this paper, we focus on the processes involved in early concept acquisition and demonstrate that certain aspects of these processes remain largely understudied. These aspects include the primacy of movement and coordination with others within a structured social environment as well as the importance of first-person experiences pertaining to perception and action. We argue that alternative approaches to cognition, such as ecological psychology, enactivism and interactivism, are helpful for foregrounding these understudied areas. These approaches can complement the extant research concerning concepts to help us obtain a more comprehensive view of knowledge structures, thus providing us with a new perspective on recurring problems, suggesting novel questions and enriching our methodological toolbox. This article is part of the theme issue 'Concepts in interaction: social engagement and inner experiences'.

Mental representations remain the central posits of psychology after many decades of scrutiny. However, there is no consensus about the representational format(s) of biological cognition. This paper provides a survey of evidence from computational cognitive psychology, perceptual psychology, developmental psychology, comparative psychology, and social psychology, and concludes that one type of format that routinely crops up is the language-of-thought (LoT). We outline six core properties of LoTs: (i) discrete constituents; (ii) role-filler independence; (iii) predicate-argument structure; (iv) logical operators; (v) inferential promiscuity; and (vi) abstract content. These properties cluster together throughout cognitive science. Bayesian computational modeling, compositional features of object perception, complex infant and animal reasoning, and automatic, intuitive cognition in adults all implicate LoT-like structures. Instead of regarding LoT as a relic of the previous century, researchers in cognitive science and philosophy-of-mind must take seriously the explanatory breadth of LoT-based architectures. We grant that the mind may harbor many formats and architectures, including iconic and associative structures as well as deep-neural-network-like architectures. However, as computational/representational approaches to the mind continue to advance, classical compositional symbolic structures - that is, LoTs - only prove more flexible and well-supported over time.

Cognitive linguists are increasingly extending their paradigm to include the study of gestures. The bottom-up, usage-based approach in cognitive linguistics has advanced the methods for identifying gesture functions, starting from a detailed analysis of gesture forms. Theoretical notions from cognitive linguistics also help explain the means by which the forms of gestures can be interpreted as meaningful functions. Principles of conceptual metonymy explain how gestures indicate referents through the partial representation of their features that are relevant in the context of use. Conceptual metaphor theory sheds light on how abstract notions can be represented in gesture via comparison with physical source domains. Furthermore, every gestural representation inherently requires the gesturing speaker to employ a specific viewpoint for their depiction-something which is normally not expressed verbally. These aspects of gesture provide insights into processes of thinking for speaking that can be exploited in various fields of cognitive science research. Referential gestures also normally combine pragmatic and interactive functions (showing stance-taking, for example) with representational or deictic functions. The multiple functions of gesture combined with those of speech raise questions for further research about how viewing-listeners interpret and combine information from the multiple semiotic systems employed by gesturing-speakers. Finally, gesture use has been shown to correlate not only with lexical concepts but also in some ways with grammatical constructions. This gives rise to fundamental questions about what constitutes the grammar of a language. Gesture analysis thus raises issues for consideration in any research in cognitive science that concerns spoken language. This article is categorized under: Linguistics > Cognitive Linguistics > Linguistic Theory Psychology > Language.

Experimental design and computational modelling across the cognitive sciences often rely on measures of semantic similarity between concepts. Traditional measures of semantic similarity are typically derived from distance in taxonomic databases (e.g. WordNet), databases of participant-produced semantic features, or corpus-derived linguistic distributional similarity (e.g. CBOW), all of which are theoretically problematic in their lack of grounding in sensorimotor experience. We present a new measure of sensorimotor distance between concepts, based on multidimensional comparisons of their experiential strength across 11 perceptual and action-effector dimensions in the Lancaster Sensorimotor Norms. We demonstrate that, in modelling human similarity judgements, sensorimotor distance has comparable explanatory power to other measures of semantic similarity, explains variance in human judgements which is missed by other measures, and does so with the advantages of remaining both grounded and computationally efficient. Moreover, sensorimotor distance is equally effective for both concrete and abstract concepts. We further introduce a web-based tool ( https://lancaster.ac.uk/psychology/smdistance ) for easily calculating and visualising sensorimotor distance between words, featuring coverage of nearly 800 million word pairs. Supplementary materials are available at https://osf.io/d42q6/ .

Natural language meaning has properties of both (embodied) cognitive representations and formal/mathematical structures. But it is not clear how they actually relate to one another. This article argues that how properties of cognitive representations and formal/mathematical structures of natural language meaning can be united remains one of the puzzles in cognitive science. That is primarily because formal/mathematical structures of natural language meaning are abstract, logical, and truth-conditional properties, whereas cognitive/conceptual representations are embodied and grounded in sensory-motor systems. After reviewing the current progress, this work offers, in outline, the general formulations that show how these two different kinds of representations for semantic structures can (potentially) be unified and also proposes three desiderata for testing, in brain dynamics, the mathematical equivalence between formal symbolic representations (and their transitions), and neuronal population codes (and their transitions).

Tangram pictures are abstract pictures which may be used as stimuli in various fields of experimental psychology and are often used in the field of dialogue psychology. The present study provides the first norms for a set of 332 tangram pictures. These pictures were standardized on a set of variables classically used in the literature on cognitive processes, such as visual perception, language, and memory: name agreement, image agreement, familiarity, visual complexity, image variability, and age of acquisition. Furthermore, norms for concreteness were also provided owing to the influence of this variable on the processes involved in lexical production. Correlational analyses on all variables were performed on the data collected from French native speakers. This new set of standardized pictures constitutes a reliable database for researchers when they select tangram pictures. Given the abstract nature of tangram pictures, this paper also discusses the similarities and differences with the literature on line drawings, and highlights their value for dialogue psychology studies, for psycholinguistics studies, and for cognitive psychology in general.

Reports an error in "The social neuroscience of music: Understanding the social brain through human song" by David M. Greenberg, Jean Decety and Ilanit Gordon (

Reports an error in "Prescriptive authority for psychologists: The next step" by Steven Eric Curtis, Samantha Hoffmann and Maeve O'Leary Sloan (

Course of School Absenteeism 1.5-3 Years After Initial Evaluation: Symptoms, Psychosocial Functioning, and Help-Seeking Behavior 

Reports an error in "Orthographic forms affect speech perception in a second language: Consonant and vowel length in L2 English" by Bene Bassetti, Jackie Masterson, Tania Cerni and Paolo Mairano (

Reports an error in "Dual use of alcohol and cannabis among college students: A reinforcer pathologies approach" by Gideon P. Naudé, Derek D. Reed, Tyler J. Thornton and Michael Amlung (

David Torres Irribarra's new book (2021), A Pragmatic Perspective of Measurement describes the most prominent definitions of measurement, which tend to focus on the properties of score scales, and offers a new definition of measurement based on the philosophy of Pragmatism. Torres Irribarra gives the purpose or goal of measurement a central role in his model, and treats measurements as tools for achieving these goals. His emphasis on particular relevant variables and on the intended use of measures of these variable to achieve a specific goals is akin to validity theory as practiced in educational and psychological measurement. The traditional definitions of measurement focus on abstract scaling models that can be applied equally well to a range of variables, but in practice, the uses of data in the social sciences do not usually require strong scaling assumptions. Torres Irribarra's definition requires that we attend to the specific interpretations and uses of the measures.

How humans integrate and abstract numerical information across different formats is one of the most debated questions in human cognition. We addressed the neuronal signatures of the numerical integration using an EEG technique tagged at the frequency of visual stimulation. In an oddball design, participants were stimulated with standard sequences of numbers (< 5) depicted in single (digits, dots, number words) or mixed notation (dots-digits, number words-dots, digits-number words), presented at 10 Hz. Periodically, a deviant stimulus (> 5) was inserted at 1.25 Hz. We observed significant oddball amplitudes for all single notations, showing for the first time using this EEG technique, that the magnitude information is spontaneously and unintentionally abstracted, irrespectively of the numerical format. Significant amplitudes were also observed for digits-number words and number words-dots, but not for digits-dots, suggesting an automatic integration across some numerical formats. These results imply that direct and indirect neuro-cognitive links exist across the different numerical formats.

Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV can generate costs both within and outside the health sector (i.e. intersectoral costs). This systematic review aims (i) to explore the intersectoral costs associated with STIs and HIV considered in cost-of-illness (COI) studies, (ii) to categorise and analyse these costs according to cost sectors, and (iii) to illustrate the impact of intersectoral costs on the total cost burden. Medline (PubMed), EMBASE (Ovid), Web of Science, CINAHL, PsycINFO, EconLit and NHS EED were searched between 2009 and 2019. Key search terms included terms for cost-of-illness, cost analysis and all terms for STIs including specific infections. Studies were included that assessed intersectoral costs. A standardised data extraction form was adopted. A cost component table was established based on pre-defined sector-specific classification schemes. Cost results for intersectoral costs were recorded. The quality of studies was assessed using a modified version of the CHEC-list. 75 COI studies were considered for title/abstract screening. Only six studies were available in full-text and eligible for data extraction and narrative synthesis. Intersectoral costs were captured in the following sectors: Patient & family, Informal care and Productivity (Paid Labour). Patient & family costs were addressed in four studies, including patient out-of-pocket payments/co-payments and travel costs. Informal care costs including unpaid (home) care support by family/friends and other caregiver costs were considered in three studies. All six studies estimated productivity costs for paid labour including costs in terms of absenteeism, disability, cease-to-work, presenteeism and premature death. Intersectoral costs largely contributed to the total economic cost burden of STIs and HIV. The quality assessment revealed methodological differences. It is evident that intersectoral costs associated with STIs and HIV are substantial. If relevant intersectoral costs are not included in cost analyses the total cost burden of STIs and HIV to society is severely underestimated. Therefore, intersectoral costs need to be addressed in order to ensure the total economic burden of STIs and HIV on society is assessed, and communicated to policy/decision-makers.

Humans are unique in their ability to think about themselves and carry a more or less clear notion of who they are in their mind. Here we review recent evidence suggesting that the birth, maintenance, and loss of the abstract concept of 'self' is deeply tied to interoception, the sense of internal physiological signals. Interoception influences multiple facets of the self-concept, cutting across its material, social, moral, and agentive components. Overall, we argue that interoception contributes to the stability of the self-concept over time, unifying its layers and constraining the degree to which it is susceptible to external influences. Hence, the core features of the self-concept are those that correlate more with inner bodily states. We discuss the implications that this may have for theories of embodied cognition as well as for the understanding of psychiatric disorders in which the concept of self appears fragmented or loose. Finally, we formulate some empirical predictions that could be tested in future studies to shed further light on this emerging field.

Humans are adept at learning the latent structure of the relationship between abstract concepts and can build a cognitive map from limited experiences. However, examining internal representations of the cognitive map is challenging because they are unobservable and differ across individuals. Here, we introduce a behavioral training protocol designed for human participants to implicitly build a map of two-dimensional social hierarchies while making a series of binary choices and analytic tools for measuring the internal representation of this structural knowledge. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Park et al. (2020a, 2020b).

Kazimierz Filip Wize (1873-1953) was a Polish multidisciplinary scholar, a microbiologist, a lepidopterologist, a psychiatrist, and a philosopher. He was an avid promoter of care of the mentally ill. After defending a Ph.D. in medicine in Munich (Germany) in 1899, Wize specialized in bacteriology at the Pasteur Institute in Paris. In 1907 he defended his second Ph.D. in philosophy in Leipzig. Soon, Wize became an internationally active scholar and a prolific writer, working especially on esthetics and the philosophy of medicine. For Wize, philosophy of action was a bridge between abstract academic philosophy, practical ethics, and the philosophy of medicine understood as an art and a science. Later in his life, Wize moved back to practicing medicine, and in the 1930s he specialized in psychiatry. The new field enabled him to apply his esthetic concepts to the treatment of patients and become a pioneer of art therapy. Music, painting, and dance, Wize argued, are a means to achieve serenity and freedom and play an important part in the process of recovery. Much later, Wize witnessed the extermination of psychiatric patients in Poland during a Nazi T4 action.

Parenting capacity: Definitions, indicators, and assessment 

The Importance of Critical Life Events During Childhood for the Mental Health of Adolescents - Results of a 10-Year Catamnesis 

Inner speech travels under many aliases: the inner voice, verbal thought, thinking in words, internal verbalization, "talking in your head," the "little voice in the head," and so on. It is both a familiar element of first-person experience and a psychological phenomenon whose complex cognitive components and distributed neural bases are increasingly well understood. There is evidence that inner speech plays a variety of cognitive roles, from enabling abstract thought, to supporting metacognition, memory, and executive function. One active area of controversy concerns the relation of inner speech to auditory verbal hallucinations (AVHs) in schizophrenia, with a common proposal being that sufferers of AVH misidentify their own inner speech as being generated by someone else. Recently, researchers have used artificial intelligence to translate the neural and neuromuscular signatures of inner speech into corresponding outer speech signals, laying the groundwork for a variety of new applications and interventions. This article is categorized under: Philosophy > Foundations of Cognitive Science Linguistics > Language in Mind and Brain Philosophy > Consciousness Philosophy > Psychological Capacities.

Part of a larger project aimed at performing an empirical meta-theoretical analysis of the entire corpus of scientific literature on Social Representations Theory (SRT), this research presents the state of the art of the anthropological and ethnographic approaches to SRT. Applying the Grid for Meta-Theoretical Analysis on 295 publications selected from the So.Re.Com"A.S. de Rosa"@-library, we compiled a rich set of meta-data and data illustrative of how SRT was conceptualized and operationalized within the anthropological and ethnographic approaches, as well as its positioning among other theoretical and disciplinary frameworks. The data was submitted to textual analysis, followed by a Hierarchical Clustering on Principal Components analysis. The empirical results suggest that from a theoretical standpoint, the anthropological and ethnographic approaches - inspired by its main exponents Jodelet (1991, 2016) and Duveen and Lloyd, (1986, 1993) - are consistent with the dynamic conceptualization of social representations set out by Moscovici (1961/1976, 1984/2003, 1988, 2000, 2013), as revolutionary paradigm that has shifted the emphasis of social psychology from looking at isolated variables in individuals in the abstract, towards a supra-disciplinary integrative vision of a social science, that investigates the genesis, transformation and negotiation of social representations in the communicative actual contexts (Billig 1991; de Rosa 2013a, b; Sammut et al. 2015a). From an empirical perspective, the variety of qualitative methods employed were open to investigate socio-cultural dimensions and symbolic universes, reflecting the integrative tradition of SRT that bridges diverse neighbouring disciplines in an effort towards a multifaceted perspective on the object of study.

Occupational Applications Manual material handlers performing stocking tasks spent substantial amounts of time in bent postures but used traditional stoops and squats infrequently. Instead, they often used split-legged stoops and squats, where one foot is further forward than the other, and one-legged ("golfer's") lifts. During object manipulation, the distance workers reached away from their body, and the height at which they manipulated objects, were correlated with the posture used by the worker. Workers also stayed in different postures for different lengths of time. It is likely that certain postures are more comfortable for the workers to remain in, provide additional mobility or operational radius, or require less energy to use. Understanding these factors in more detail could lead to improved worker training programs, where the postures taught not only have low injury risk but are comfortable so are actually adopted and used by the workers.

Decisions are made based on the subjective value that the brain assigns to options. However, subjective value is a mathematical construct that cannot be measured directly, but rather is inferred from choices. Recent results have demonstrated that reaction time, amplitude, and velocity of movements are modulated by reward, raising the possibility that there is a link between how the brain evaluates an option and how it controls movements toward that option. Here, we asked people to choose among risky options represented by abstract stimuli, some associated with gain (points in a game), and others with loss. From their choices we estimated the subjective value that they assigned to each stimulus. In probe trials, a single stimulus appeared at center, instructing subjects to make a saccade to a peripheral target. We found that the reaction time, peak velocity, and amplitude of the peripherally directed saccade varied roughly linearly with the subjective value that the participant had assigned to the central stimulus: reaction time was shorter, velocity was higher, and amplitude was larger for stimuli that the participant valued more. Naturally, participants differed in how much they valued a given stimulus. Remarkably, those who valued a stimulus more, as evidenced by their choices in decision trials, tended to move with shorter reaction time and greater velocity in response to that stimulus in probe trials. Overall, the reaction time of the saccade in response to a stimulus partly predicted the subjective value that the brain assigned to that stimulus.

Cancer Rehabilitation: integrated in the care pathways of modern oncology 

Assessment of the maturity of juvenile and young adult offenders according to §105 of German juvenile law: a developmental psychology perspective 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The experience of hearing distressing voices is commonly reported by service users with a diagnosis of first-episode psychosis, but their access to formal conversations about voices in the form of psychological therapies can be limited. Service users within Early Intervention in Psychosis (EIP) services can benefit from informal opportunities to talk about their voice hearing experiences. However, they can be reluctant to engage with these conversations. Little is known about the experiences of EIP practitioners as they try to engage service users in conversations about their voices. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Despite EIP Services specializing in the treatment of the symptoms of psychosis such as voice hearing, practitioners can still be reluctant to initiate and continue informal conversations about voices. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: EIP practitioners may benefit from the introduction of interview guides and brief interventions to assist them with the initiation and continuation of conversations about voices. ABSTRACT: Introduction Hearing voices is a common and distressing symptom of first-episode psychosis. Formal and informal conversations about voices are helpful, but service users within Early Intervention in Psychosis (EIP) Services can be reluctant to discuss their voice hearing experiences. There is currently no literature that explores the experiences of EIP practitioners as they try to facilitate conversations about distressing voices. Aim/Question A qualitative methodology was used to investigate how EIP practitioners work with service users who hear voices. Ten practitioners were interviewed, and interviews were analysed using template analysis. Results Two themes that offer novel insights are presented: "starting a conversation about voices" and "continuing the conversation about voices." Discussion Starting and continuing a conversation about voices was considered important but not all practitioners were confident in this respect. The initiation and continuation of these conversations may need to be systematically supported. Implications for practice To support the initiation of informal conversations, a standardized interview guide for voice hearing could be introduced and systematically utilized. The continuation of these conversations could be supported by practitioners being given the opportunity to receive training in and the opportunity to deliver brief symptom-specific therapies for distressing voices.

Research suggests that scientists display confirmation biases with regard to the evaluation of research studies, in that they evaluate results as being stronger when a study confirms their prior expectations. These biases may influence the peer review process, particularly for studies that present controversial findings. The purpose of the current study was to compare the evaluation of a parapsychology study versus a neuroscience study. One hundred participants with a background in psychology were randomly assigned to read and evaluate one of two virtually identical study abstracts (50 participants per group). One of the abstracts described the findings as if they were from a parapsychology study, whereas the other abstract described the findings as if they were from a neuroscience study. The results revealed that participants rated the neuroscience abstract as having stronger findings and as being more valid and reliable than the parapsychology abstract, despite the fact that the two abstracts were identical. Participants also displayed confirmation bias in their ratings of the parapsychology abstract, in that their ratings were correlated with their scores on transcendentalism (a measure of beliefs and experiences related to parapsychology, consciousness and reality). Specifically, higher transcendentalism was associated with more favorable ratings of the parapsychology abstract, whereas lower transcendentalism was associated with less favorable ratings. The findings suggest that individuals with a background in psychology need to be vigilant about potential biases that could impact their evaluations of parapsychology research during the peer review process.

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is inconsistently associated with depression. These associations may depend on factors such as biological sex, age, and health status. Identifying such factors may help optimize treatment of HIV and depression. We implemented a novel approach to examine interindividual variability in the association between ART agents and depressive symptoms. 3434 women living with HIV (WLWH) from the Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) were computationally divided into subgroups based on sociodemographic (e.g., age) and longitudinal (from 1995 to 2016) behavioral and clinical profiles (e.g., substance use, HIV RNA, CD4 counts). Five subgroups (n's ranged from 482 to 802) were identified and characterized as those with: controlled HIV/vascular comorbidities; profound HIV legacy effects; younger women [<45 years of age] with hepatitis C; primarily 35-55 year olds; and poorly controlled HIV/substance use. Within each subgroup, we examined associations between ART agents used over the past 6 months and item-level depressive symptoms on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale. Tenofovir (4 of 5 subgroups) followed by efavirenz, emtricitabine, stavudine, lopinavir, etravirine, nelfinavir, ritonavir, and maraviroc were the most common agents associated with depressive symptoms, although the pattern and directionality varied by subgroup. For example, lopinavir was associated with fewer symptoms among the subgroup with a legacy HIV effect but more symptoms among the subgroup with well-controlled HIV/vascular comorbidities. Unexpectedly, dolutegravir and raltegravir were not associated with depressive symptoms among any subgroup. Findings underscore marked interindividual variability in ART agents on depression in WLWH. Sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral factors are important determinants of the relationship between ART agents and depressive symptoms in WLWH. Graphical Abstract Are antiretroviral agents a risk factor for depressive symptoms in women with HIV? We examined associations between ART-agents and depressive symptoms among similar subgroups of women with HIV from the Women's Interagency HIV Study. The patterns of associations depended on sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral characteristics of women.

Standardized distress screening programs do not replace discussing distress and psychosocial care needs with patients 

Workplace presenteeism is common and leads to the spread of infectious diseases. Previous reviews have focused on presenteeism in relation to general physical or mental ill health. In this systematic review we identified the prevalence of, and reasons and risk factors for, presenteeism in relation to an infectious illness. We searched Medline, Scopus, Web of Science, PsycINFO and PsycARTICLES with terms relating to infectious illnesses and presenteeism at the work place or school; reference lists of relevant articles were also hand-searched. Our search yielded 3580 papers after deduplication. After title, abstract and full text screening, 23 papers reporting on 24 studies were included. Twenty-three studies were cross-sectional studies and one was prospective. The quality of included studies was relatively poor due to problems such as sampling and non-response bias. Presenteeism prevalence ranged from 35 to 97%. Self-reported reasons for presenteeism fell into three main themes: 1. Organisational factors (organisational policy, presenteeism culture, disciplinary action), 2. Job characteristics (lack of cover, professionalism, job demand), and 3. Personal reasons (burden on colleagues, colleague perceptions, threshold of sickness absence and financial concerns). Statistical risk factors fell into four themes: 1. Sociodemographic, 2. Health, 3. Influenza-related behaviour, and 4. Employment characteristics. Most of the risk factors had insufficient evidence to allow us to draw any firm conclusions, and evidence regarding gender and age was inconsistent. The risk factor with the most consistent findings concerned occupation type, suggesting that those who worked in the healthcare sector, and specifically physicians, were at a higher risk of infectious illness presenteeism. Infectious illness presenteeism is common. To address the public health consequences, organisations should focus on promoting a positive working culture and developing sickness absence policies that reduce presenteeism. Further research is needed in non-health sector organisations and schools to identify risk factors related to different organisations, which can then be used to tailor interventions at the organisational and individual level.

Using data from the 4-H Study of Positive Youth Development (PYD), we employed a cross-lagged model to examine the temporal order of the relationship between PYD and youths' spirituality. Our sample consisted of 1,842 youth from 32 states in the continental United States. Mean age across the two waves of data used in this study was 15.5 and 16.6, respectively. The cross-lagged model allowed us to test the model suggesting that youth must develop certain abilities (e.g., Cs of PYD) prior to constructing and internalizing abstract notions of spirituality. Findings supported this argument, with relations varying across conceptions of spirituality. This study provides a more comprehensive understanding of mechanisms and processes linking youths' spirituality and PYD, highlighting several important implications for research and practice.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess the empirical literature on wisdom• Evaluate a proposed model of wisdom development ABSTRACT: This article seeks to provide an overview of the empirical literature on wisdom in terms of its definitions and measurements, possible neurobiological basis, and evolutionary value, as well as changes with aging and potential clinical interventions to enhance components of wisdom. Wisdom may be defined as a complex human trait with several specific components: social decision making, emotion regulation, prosocial behaviors, self-reflection, acceptance of uncertainty, decisiveness, and spirituality. These components appear to be localized primarily to the prefrontal cortex and limbic striatum. Emerging research suggests that wisdom is linked to better overall health, well-being, happiness, life satisfaction, and resilience. Wisdom likely increases with age, facilitating a possible evolutionary role of wise grandparents in promoting the fitness of the species. Despite the loss of their own fertility and physical health, older adults help enhance their children's well-being, health, longevity, and fertility-the "Grandma Hypothesis" of wisdom. We propose a model of wisdom development that incorporates genetic, environmental, and evolutionary aspects. Wisdom has important implications at both individual and societal levels, and warrants further research as a major contributor to human thriving. There is a need for a greater emphasis on promoting wisdom through our educational systems from elementary to professional schools.

An article by Alexandra Kirsch accepted for publication in Cognitive Processing occasioned debate among reviewers about broad methodological issues in cognitive science. One of these issues is the proper place of Popperian falsificationism in the interdisciplinary cluster. Another is the tension between abstract models and theories that apply to wide classes of cognitive systems, and models of more restricted scope intended to predict specifically human patterns of thought and behavior. The lead editorial in a Commentary debate invited by the journal's editors considers these issues from the perspective of a pragmatist philosophy of science inspired by Herbert Simon's classic (The sciences of the artificial (2nd edition 1981; 3rd edition 1996), MIT Press, Cambridge, 1969) reflections on the blurring of the distinction between science and engineering in cognitive science.

Nonsuicidal self-injury in connection with the axes Structure and Relationship of the OPD-KJ-2 (Operationalized Psychodynamic Diagnostics in Childhood and Adolescence) 

A clear picture of what Human Performance success looks like is now available from BioPhorum, where members of the Human Performance workstream have defined a blue-sky for the industry. This blue-sky document is both a guide and an assessment tool, which includes warning flags that help to identify significant obstacles in the way of effective human performance integration with operations that must be addressed. The effort to improve reliable operations within biopharma using elements of human performance borrowed from other industries have experienced uneven results and slow progress across the last seven years and has been bogged down for multiple significant reasons. These include a mental model that persists within the industry where workers are assumed to be the problem that needs fixing, the mistaken belief that Lean/Operational Excellence is a cure-all and nearly equivalent to human performance, neglecting the need to fundamentally rethink why and how investigations are performed, and truly underestimating the time, effort, strength of sponsor support, and strategy needed to change how work is designed, executed, and then later learned from.

Motor imagery (MI) is a very popular and well-accepted technique in different disciplines. Originating from sport and psychology, MI is now also used in the field of medicine and education. Several studies confirmed the benefits of MI to facilitate motor learning and skill acquisition. The findings indicated that individual's MI ability might influence the effectiveness of MI interventions. Over the last two centuries, researchers have developed several assessments to evaluate MI's abstract construct. However, no systematic reviews (SR) exist for MI ability evaluation methods and their measurement properties. The SR will evaluate available MI ability assessments and their psychometric properties in four relevant disciplines: sports, psychology, medicine and education. This involves performing searches in SPORTDiscus, PsycINFO, Cochrane Library, Scopus, Web of Science and ERIC. Working independently, two reviewers will screen articles for selection. Then all raw information will be compiled in an overview table-including the articles' characteristics (eg, a study's setting or the population demographics) and the MI ability assessment (psychometric properties). To evaluate the articles' methodological quality, we will use the COSMIN checklist. Then we will evaluate all the included assessments' quality and perform a best-evidence synthesis. Results of this review will be reported following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The SR is based on published data, and ethical approval is not required. This review will provide information on assessment performance and equipment, as well as its main focus and usefulness. Furthermore, we will present the methodological quality of all the included articles and assess the included instruments' quality. Ultimately, this will act as a valuable resource, providing an overview of MI ability assessments for individual clinical settings, treatment aims, and various populations. The SR's final report will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and presented at relevant conferences. CRD42017077004.

Psychopathology in adolescents from seven countries: What role does controlling identity development and family relationships play? 

The many tools that social and behavioral scientists use to gather data from their fellow humans have, in most cases, been honed on a rarefied subset of humanity: highly educated participants with unique capacities, experiences, motivations, and social expectations. Through this honing process, researchers have developed protocols that extract information from these participants with great efficiency. However, as researchers reach out to broader populations, it is unclear whether these highly refined protocols are robust to cultural differences in skills, motivations, and expected modes of social interaction. In this paper, we illustrate the kinds of mismatches that can arise when using these highly refined protocols with nontypical populations by describing our experience translating an apparently simple social discounting protocol to work in rural Bangladesh. Multiple rounds of piloting and revision revealed a number of tacit assumptions about how participants should perceive, understand, and respond to key elements of the protocol. These included facility with numbers, letters, abstract number lines, and 2D geometric shapes, and the treatment of decisions as a series of isolated events. Through on-the-ground observation and a collaborative refinement process, we developed a protocol that worked both in Bangladesh and among US college students. More systematic study of the process of adapting common protocols to new contexts will provide valuable information about the range of skills, motivations, and modes of interaction that participants bring to studies as we develop a more diverse and inclusive social and behavioral science.

Inadequate gestational weight gain (GWG), which has reached almost two-thirds of Canadian pregnant women, is associated with several adverse effects both in the mother and her child. The aim of this review was to establish how psychosocial factors, diet and GWG are interrelated during pregnancy. More specifically, it aimed to evaluate how psychosocial factors can impact on diet and, thus, influence GWG. Studies published through May 2017 that examined factors related to GWG were included. Of 3268 non-duplicate titles and abstract, 77 articles underwent full-text review. Regarding dietary intakes, the majority of the included studies demonstrated that a higher caloric intake was associated with an elevated GWG. Also, a negative body image and attitude toward weight gain as well as a poor knowledge of GWG recommendations and inadequate prenatal care is associated with an increased GWG. Only few studies examined altogether the factors included and conclusions about how psychosocial factors can impact on diet and, thus, influence GWG cannot be drawn at this point. In the few studies that evaluated the interrelationships between psychosocial factors, diet and GWG, energy intake was not identified as a mediator of the association between psychosocial factors and GWG. This review highlights the scarcity of findings regarding psychosocial and dietary factors in relation to GWG and the need for high quality prospective cohort studies that will include all these factors to provide a better understanding of how they are interrelated to influence short- and long-term health.

Intrusive memories of a traumatic event can be distressing and disruptive, and comprise a core clinical feature of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Intrusive memories involve mental imagery-based impressions that intrude into mind involuntarily, and are emotional. Here we consider how recent advances in cognitive science have fueled our understanding of the development and possible treatment of intrusive memories of trauma. We conducted a systematic literature search in PubMed, selecting articles published from 2008 to 2018 that used the terms "trauma" AND ("intrusive memories" OR "involuntary memories") in their abstract or title. First, we discuss studies that investigated internal (neural, hormonal, psychophysiological, and cognitive) processes that contribute to intrusive memory development. Second, we discuss studies that targeted these processes using behavioural/pharmacological interventions to reduce intrusive memories. Third, we consider possible clinical implications of this work and highlight some emerging research avenues for treatment and prevention, supplemented by new data to examine some unanswered questions. In conclusion, we raise the possibility that intrusive memories comprise an alternative, possibly more focused, target in translational research endeavours, rather than only targeting overall symptoms of disorders such as PTSD. If so, relatively simple approaches could help to address the need for easy-to-deliver, widely-scalable trauma interventions.

Social status is often metaphorically construed in terms of spatial relations such as height, size, and numerosity. This has led to the idea that social status might partially be represented by an analogue magnitude system, responsible for processing the magnitude of various physical and abstract dimensions. Accordingly, processing of social status should obey Weber's law. We conducted three studies to investigate whether social status comparisons would indicate behavioral outcomes derived from Weber's law: the distance effect and the size effect. Dependent variable was the latency of status comparisons for a variety of both learned and familiar hierarchies. As predicted and in line with previous findings, we observed a clear distance effect. However, the effect of size variation differed from the size effect hypothesized a priori, and an unexpected interaction between the two effects was observed. In conclusion, we provide a robust confirmation of previous observations of the distance effect in social status comparisons, but the shape of the size effect requires new theorizing.

This paper investigates the historical (1850s-2000s) evolution of semantics in the English language using contemporaneous, decade-specific computational estimates of word concreteness. Study 1 describes the computational method of generating time-locked estimates of concreteness based on the Corpus of Historic American English, and makes available the computed scores for 25,000 English words over 15 decades. We also report several tests of reliability and validity, demonstrating that our historical concreteness scores have high levels of both. Study 2 uses concreteness scores to revisit findings of studies that use a static set of contemporary human concreteness norms to examine historical trends of semantic change. Specifically, we observed (contra Hills & Adelman, (Cognition, 143, 87-92 2015)) that distinct word types of the English language become increasingly more concrete over time and (in line with Hills & Adelman, (Cognition, 143, 87-92 2015) & Hills, Adelman & Noguchi, (The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 70(8), 1603-1619 2016)) that relatively concrete words tend to be used more often than abstract ones. We discuss both contrastive and corroborative claims in light of recent work on semantic evolution and argue for the use of time-locked computed estimates over static human norms when examining diachronic linguistic phenomena.

This paper highlights the significance of sensory studies and psychophysical investigations of the relations between psychic and physical phenomena for our understanding of the development of the physics discipline, by examining aspects of research on sense perception, physiology, esthetics, and psychology in the work of Gustav Theodor Fechner, Hermann von Helmholtz, Wilhelm Wundt, and Ernst Mach between 1860 and 1871. It complements previous approaches oriented around research on vision, Fechner's psychophysics, or the founding of experimental psychology, by charting Mach's engagement with psychophysical experiments in particular. Examining Mach's study of the senses and esthetics, his changing attitudes toward the mechanical worldview and atomism, and his articulation of comparative understandings of sensual, geometrical, and physical spaces helps set Mach's emerging epistemological views in the context of his teaching and research. Mach complemented an analytic strategy focused on parallel psychic and physical dimensions of sensation, with a synthetic comparative approach - building analogies between the retina, the individual, and social life, and moving between abstract and sensual spaces. An examination of the broadly based critique that Mach articulated in his 1871 lecture on the conservation of work shows how his historical approach helped Mach cast what he now saw as a narrowly limiting emphasis on mechanics as a phase yet to be overcome.

The capacity for abstract thought is one of the hallmarks of human cognition. However, the mechanisms underlying the ability to form and use abstract concepts like 'fantasy' and 'grace' have not been elucidated yet. This theme issue brings together developmental, social and cognitive psychologists, linguists, anthropologists, cognitive scientists, neuroscientists, philosophers and computer scientists to present theoretical insights and novel evidence on how abstract concepts are acquired, used and represented in the brain. Many of the contributions conceive concepts as grounded in sensorimotor systems and constrained by bodily mechanisms and structures. The theme issue develops along two main axes, related to the most promising research directions on abstract concepts. The axes focus on (i) the different kinds of abstract concepts (numbers, emotions, evaluative concepts like moral and aesthetic ones, social concepts); (ii) the role played by perception and action, language and sociality, and inner processes (emotions, interoception, metacognition) in grounding abstract concepts. Most papers adopt a cognitive science/neuroscience approach, but the theme issue also includes studies on development, on social cognition, and on how linguistic diversity shapes abstract concepts. Overall, the theme issue provides an integrated theoretical account that highlights the importance of language, sociality and inner processes for abstract concepts, and that offers new methodological tools to investigate them.This article is part of the theme issue 'Varieties of abstract concepts: development, use and representation in the brain'.

In cancer patients, unmet psychosocial needs are a common occurrence. The purpose of this study was to determine the views, obstacles, and needs of the nurses working with adult oncology patients with regards to psychosocial care. A qualitative descriptive research design conducted through focus group interviews was adopted for the study. Thirty nurses providing care for cancer patients in adult oncology departments of three hospitals in Turkey with comprehensive oncology centers were involved in the interviews. The interviews were conducted via a semi-structured interview form. In analyzing the data, content analysis technique was utilized. In the study, three main themes and seven sub-themes were determined. These were as follows: "Challenge" (Sub-themes: The nature of the disease: A thin line between life and death; Lack of team/institutional support; Lack of time, staff, and knowledge; Vulnerability of the patient and their family), "reward and cost" (Sub-themes: Satisfaction; Personal growth; Exhaustion), and "essential but hard to define". This study reveal that nurses have difficulty delivering psychosocial care, which they perceive in abstract terms, in an environment where the disease is still considered fatal, the conditions of the patients change constantly, and they cannot receive the necessary support. It can be important that, as well as supportive institutional regulations, the nurses are in need of necessary assistance to help them change their own perceptions on cancer, to become emotionally stronger, and to acquire necessary knowledge and skills to give psychosocial care.

Semantic cognition requires conceptual representations shaped by verbal and nonverbal experience and executive control processes that regulate activation of knowledge to meet current situational demands. A complete model must also account for the representation of concrete and abstract words, of taxonomic and associative relationships, and for the role of context in shaping meaning. We present the first major attempt to assimilate all of these elements within a unified, implemented computational framework. Our model combines a hub-and-spoke architecture with a buffer that allows its state to be influenced by prior context. This hybrid structure integrates the view, from cognitive neuroscience, that concepts are grounded in sensory-motor representation with the view, from computational linguistics, that knowledge is shaped by patterns of lexical co-occurrence. The model successfully codes knowledge for abstract and concrete words, associative and taxonomic relationships, and the multiple meanings of homonyms, within a single representational space. Knowledge of abstract words is acquired through (a) their patterns of co-occurrence with other words and (b) acquired embodiment, whereby they become indirectly associated with the perceptual features of co-occurring concrete words. The model accounts for executive influences on semantics by including a controlled retrieval mechanism that provides top-down input to amplify weak semantic relationships. The representational and control elements of the model can be damaged independently, and the consequences of such damage closely replicate effects seen in neuropsychological patients with loss of semantic representation versus control processes. Thus, the model provides a wide-ranging and neurally plausible account of normal and impaired semantic cognition. (PsycINFO Database Record

Correct counting respects the stable order principle whereby the count terms are recited in a fixed order every time. The 4 experiments reported here tested whether precounting infants recognize and prefer correct stable-ordered counting. The authors introduced a novel preference paradigm in which infants could freely press two buttons to activate videos of counting events. In the "correct" counting video, number words were always recited in the canonical order ("1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6"). The "incorrect" counting video was identical except that the number words were recited in a random order (e.g., "5, 3, 1, 6, 4, 2"). In Experiment 1, 18-month-olds (n = 21), but not 15-month-olds (n = 24), significantly preferred to press the button that activated correct counting events. Experiment 2 revealed that English-learning 18-month-olds' (n = 21) preference for stable-ordered counting disappeared when the counting was done in Japanese. By contrast, Experiment 3 showed that multilingual 18-month-olds (n = 24) preferred correct stable-ordered counting in an unfamiliar foreign language. In Experiment 4, multilingual 18-month-olds (N = 21) showed no preference for stable-ordered alphabet sequences, ruling out some alternative explanations for the Experiment 3 results. Overall these findings are consistent with the idea that implicit recognition of the stable order principle of counting is acquired by 18 months of age, and that learning more than one language may accelerate infants' understanding of abstract counting principles. (PsycINFO Database Record

The 38/2010 law has expanded the provision of palliative care to patients with chronic-degenerative diseases. The ISTAT data show that 60% of the dying population is suffering from these diseases and could, according to the literature review, benefit particularly from such treatments. This study investigates the point of view of healthcare professionals, working in the context of dementia, regarding the knowledge and application of palliative care in the field of dementia. The focus is on the analysis of the resistance that may prevent the spread of palliative care, slowing the application of such care in different settings of terminality. The method is a qualitative phenomenological approach. A grid of semi-structured interviews was created and was proposed to 33 health workers (18 women) who work in Health Centres or in the Alzheimer Nucleus of Northern Italy. Most operators think they understand palliative care, they believe it to be useful and necessary, but often only connect it with terminal illness. Others have a broader vision based on a more abstract and theoretical level than on real practical knowledge. A majority of respondents think that the spread of palliative care is slow and difficult because of the prevalence of the biomedical model that holistically and prejudicially hinders the introduction of new models. Appropriate training is the fundamental key to overcoming resistance. The professionals interviewed showed that they were aware of their lack of knowledge and declared that they had little competence in managing the complexity of long-term pathologies.

Multitasking: An Asset or a "Time Trap"? Overview of Media Multitasking in Children and Adolescents Abstract. The development of modern digital media, especially smartphones, has contributed to a fundamental change in the leisure activities and communication practices of adolescents. Besides the technical possibilities, the amount of multitasking, i.e., the parallel use of several media alone or in combination with nonmedia activities, has gained in importance. This article addresses the bidirectional relationships between multitasking and cognitive processes, consequences for performance, and the potentially negative effects on psychosocial health. This review article is based on a Medline research involving studies and reviews published on multitasking in digital media since 2000 concerning adolescents and adults. Multitasking is involved in specific neuropsychological processes of the frontal cortex and, in part, the corpus striatum. Up to an individually defined level and an objectively defined performance capacity, multitasking does not necessarily haven a negative impact on the quality of work. However, if excessive individual or objective stress occurs, especially in very young children, respective reactions and negative consequences for psychosocial health occur. According to present research results, multitasking should not be exercised in tasks requiring complex cognitive conditions. Many further studies will be required to assess the relationship between multitasking and specific psychiatric diseases, especially addictive disorders and ADHD, but also its useful implementation in educational settings has to be explored.

Recent research suggests that the foundations of human moral cognition include abstract principles of fairness and ingroup support. We examined which principle 1.5-y-old infants and 2.5-y-old toddlers would prioritize when the two were pitted against each other. In violation-of-expectation tasks, a puppet distributor brought in either two (two-item condition) or three (three-item condition) items and faced two potential recipients, an ingroup and an outgroup puppet. In each condition, the distributor allocated two items in one of three events: She gave one item each to the ingroup and outgroup puppets (equal event), she gave both items to the ingroup puppet (favors-ingroup event), or she gave both items to the outgroup puppet (favors-outgroup event). Children in the two-item condition looked significantly longer at the equal or favors-outgroup event than at the favors-ingroup event, suggesting that when there were only enough items for the group to which the distributor belonged, children detected a violation if she gave any of the items to the outgroup puppet. In the three-item condition, in contrast, children looked significantly longer at the favors-ingroup or favors-outgroup event than at the equal event, suggesting that when there were enough items for all puppets present, children detected a violation if the distributor chose to give two items to one recipient and none to the other, regardless of which recipient was advantaged. Thus, infants and toddlers expected fairness to prevail when there were as many items as puppets, but they expected ingroup support to trump fairness otherwise.

Academic conferences are among the most prolific scientific activities, yet the current abstract submission and review process has serious limitations. We propose a revised process that would address these limitations, achieve some of the aims of Open Science, and stimulate discussion throughout the entire lifecycle of the scientific work.

Knowledge dissemination plays an important role in all scientific fields. The American Psychological Association's (APA) journal publication program was established in 1927. During the 1960s, the 

Infants understand that people pursue goals, but how do they learn which goals people prefer? We tested whether infants solve this problem by inverting a mental model of action planning, trading off the costs of acting against the rewards actions bring. After seeing an agent attain two goals equally often at varying costs, infants expected the agent to prefer the goal it attained through costlier actions. These expectations held across three experiments that conveyed cost through different physical path features (height, width, and incline angle), suggesting that an abstract variable-such as "force," "work," or "effort"-supported infants' inferences. We modeled infants' expectations as Bayesian inferences over utility-theoretic calculations, providing a bridge to recent quantitative accounts of action understanding in older children and adults.

The question "Am I famous yet?" directs our attention to the outcome of the journey of being a psychological scientist. There is nothing inherently wrong with wanting to achieve the highest possible outcomes when pursuing a goal. However, for a researcher, fame is an outcome that is very vague, abstract, distal, and unlikely to be attained. Focusing on this outcome might undermine motivation and persistence in the difficult endeavor of doing excellent research and contributing to psychological knowledge. To become an excellent psychological scientist might be a better outcome to which to aspire. However, focusing on the outcome seems generally less adaptive than focusing on the process of goal pursuit. A focus on the process of research is more likely to lead to higher motivation and persistence, and it might increase performance. In sum, the question "Am I famous yet?" might be ill conceived and might be better replaced by the question "How do I make a contribution to psychological science?"

Although multitasking has been the subject of a large number of papers and experiments, the term task is still not well defined. In this opinion paper, we adopt the ideomotor perspective to define the term task and distinguish it from the terms goal and action. In our opinion, actions are movements executed by an actor to achieve a concrete goal. Concrete goals are represented as anticipated sensory consequences that are associated with an action in an ideomotor manner. Concrete goals are nested in a hierarchy of more and more abstract goals, which form the context of the corresponding action. Finally, tasks are depersonalized goals, i.e., goals that should be achieved by someone. However, tasks can be assigned to a specific person or group of persons, either by a third party or by the person or the group of persons themselves. By accepting this assignment, the depersonalized task becomes a personal goal. In our opinion, research on multitasking needs to confine its scope to the analysis of concrete tasks, which result in concrete goals as anticipated sensory consequences of the corresponding action. We further argue that the distinction between dual- and single-tasking is dependent on the subjective conception of the task assignment, the goal representation and previous experience. Finally, we conclude that it is not the tasks, but the performing of the tasks, i.e. the actions that cause costs in multitasking experiments.

This Special Issue examines ethical challenges in community psychology research and practice. The literature on ethics in community psychology has remained largely abstract and aspirational, with few concrete examples and case studies, so the goal of this Special Issue was to expand our written discourse about ethical dilemmas in our field. In these articles, researchers and practitioners share stories of specific ethical challenges they faced and how they sought to resolve them. These first-person narratives examine how ethical challenges come about, how community psychology values inform ethical decision making, and how lessons learned from these experiences can inform an ethical framework for community psychology.

Network models are an increasingly popular way to abstract complex psychological phenomena. While studying the structure of network models has led to many important insights, little attention has been paid to how well they predict observations. This is despite the fact that predictability is crucial for judging the practical relevance of edges: for instance in clinical practice, predictability of a symptom indicates whether an intervention on that symptom through the symptom network is promising. We close this methodological gap by introducing nodewise predictability, which quantifies how well a given node can be predicted by all other nodes it is connected to in the network. In addition, we provide fully reproducible code examples of how to compute and visualize nodewise predictability both for cross-sectional and time series data.

One pervasive facet of human interactions is the tendency to favor ingroups over outgroups. Remarkably, this tendency has been observed even when individuals are assigned to minimal groups based on arbitrary markers. Why is mere categorization into a minimal group sufficient to elicit some degree of ingroup favoritism? We consider several accounts that have been proposed in answer to this question and then test one particular account, which holds that ingroup favoritism reflects in part an abstract and early-emerging sociomoral expectation of ingroup support. In violation-of-expectation experiments with 17-mo-old infants, unfamiliar women were first identified (using novel labels) as belonging to the same group, to different groups, or to unspecified groups. Next, one woman needed instrumental assistance to achieve her goal, and another woman either provided the necessary assistance (help event) or chose not to do so (ignore event). When the two women belonged to the same group, infants looked significantly longer if shown the ignore as opposed to the help event; when the two women belonged to different groups or to unspecified groups, however, infants looked equally at the two events. Together, these results indicate that infants view helping as expected among individuals from the same group, but as optional otherwise. As such, the results demonstrate that from an early age, an abstract expectation of ingroup support contributes to ingroup favoritism in human interactions.

Martinho and Kacelnik (2016) imprinted newly hatched ducklings (Anas platyrhynchos domestica) with a moving pair of either same or different objects, and following only one session, the ducklings accurately transferred the same/different relationship to novel object pairs that maintained the training relationship. This rapid learning and transfer of the concepts same and different far outstrips the more gradual learning of these basic concepts by animals in associative-learning tasks in which reinforcement is given for correct responses.

Although storybooks are often used as pedagogical tools for conveying moral lessons to children, the ability to spontaneously extract "the moral" of a story develops relatively late. Instead, children tend to represent stories at a concrete level - one that highlights surface features and understates more abstract themes. Here we examine the role of explanation in 5- and 6-year-old children's developing ability to learn the moral of a story. Two experiments demonstrate that, relative to a control condition, prompts to explain aspects of a story facilitate children's ability to override salient surface features, abstract the underlying moral, and generalize that moral to novel contexts. In some cases, generating an explanation is more effective than being explicitly told the moral of the story, as in a more traditional pedagogical exchange. These findings have implications for moral comprehension, the role of explanation in learning, and the development of abstract reasoning in early childhood.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: When mental health professionals leave organizations, detrimental effects on quality of patient care occur. Reasons for leaving include incivility, lack of autonomy, perceptions of unfair treatment and feeling psychologically unsafe at work. This paper sought to investigate additional reasons why mental health professionals intend to quit or to cognitively withdraw from their jobs. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Past research on this topic is limited in its scope and data. Mainly fragmented evidence is available about predictors of job satisfaction and turnover intention (i.e. different mental health occupations examined in separate studies). Only two existing studies that examined broader mental health provider groups were limited by including few workforce settings, small sample sizes and insufficiently rigorous statistical analyses. We examined four occupations (mental health nurses, social workers, psychologists and psychiatrists), each represented through a large sample in multiple settings, all within one large healthcare network with complex patients. Our contribution is finding additional predictors (supervisory support, emotional exhaustion) of job satisfaction/turnover intention. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Organizations can consider using culture change initiatives to increase civility at work; this includes leadership support and role modelling of workplace behaviours. Leaders should monitor staffing levels and high workloads to pre-empt emotional exhaustion, which predicts turnover. Hiring and training supervisors should involve not only technical expertise, but also 'soft skills' necessary for creating civil and supportive work environments. Leaders and managers should use employee feedback data (e.g. organizational surveys) to learn about the workplace environments, and address areas of employees' concern. Introduction Given the global shortage of mental health professionals, high turnover rates within this workforce are concerning. We used United States of America Veterans Health Administration data to add to the limited knowledge about this topic. Aim We examined predictors of turnover intention, or an employee's cognitive withdrawal from their job, in a large sample of direct care mental health professionals, separating among occupations to increase the pragmatic relevance of our findings. Method Survey data from 10 997 mental health employees working in direct patient contact (2432 registered nurses, 3769 social workers, 2520 psychologists and 1276 psychiatrists) were used in a cross-sectional design with structural equation modelling techniques for model testing. Results Job satisfaction was predicted by civility (courteous and respectful workplace behaviours) and supervisory support. Job satisfaction predicted emotional exhaustion which predicted turnover intention. Job satisfaction also directly predicted turnover intention and turnover plans. Discussion Predictors of job satisfaction included civility and supervisory support. Emotional exhaustion predicted turnover intention. Results inform organizational actions to address these work environment characteristics. Implications for practice Organizations can initiate culture changes to improve civility and develop supervisors' 'soft skills' in conjunction with technical expertise.

Deictic time words like "yesterday" and "tomorrow" pose a challenge to children not only because they are abstract, and label periods in time, but also because their denotations vary according to the time at which they are uttered: Monday's "tomorrow" is different than Thursday's. Although children produce these words as early as age 2 or 3, they do not use them in adult-like ways for several subsequent years. Here, we explored whether children have partial but systematic meanings for these words during the long delay before adult-like usage. We asked 3- to 8-year-olds to represent these words on a bidirectional, left-to-right timeline that extended from the past (infancy) to the future (adulthood). This method allowed us to independently probe knowledge of these words' deictic status (e.g., "yesterday" is in the past), relative ordering (e.g., "last week" was before "yesterday"), and remoteness from the present (e.g., "last week" was about 7 times longer ago than "yesterday"). We found that adult-like knowledge of deictic status and order emerge in synchrony, between ages 4 and 6, but that knowledge of remoteness emerges later, after age 7. Our findings suggest that children's early use of deictic time words is not random, but instead reflects the gradual construction of a structured lexical domain.

Jean Piaget was a master at observing the routine behaviors children produce as they go from knowing less to knowing more about at a task, and making inferences not only about how children understand the task at each point, but also about how they progress from one point to the next. This article examines a routine behavior that Piaget overlooked-the spontaneous gestures speakers produce as they explain their solutions to a problem. These gestures are not mere hand waving. They reflect ideas that the speaker has about the problem, often ideas that are not found in that speaker's talk. Gesture can do more than reflect ideas-it can also change them. Observing the gestures that others produce can change a learner's ideas, as can producing one's own gestures. In this sense, gesture behaves like any other action. But gesture differs from many other actions in that it also promotes generalization of new ideas. Gesture represents the world rather than directly manipulating the world (gesture does not move objects around) and is thus a special kind of action. As a result, the mechanisms by which gesture and action promote learning may differ. Because it is both an action and a representation, gesture can serve as a bridge between the two and thus be a powerful tool for learning abstract ideas. WIREs Cogn Sci 2017, 8:e1368. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1368 For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs website.

We argue that moral learning, like much of conceptual development more generally, involves development and change in children's intuitive theories of the world. Children's intuitive theories involve coherent and abstract representations of the world, which point to domain-specific, unobservable causal-explanatory entities. From this perspective, children rely on intuitive sociological theories (in particular, an abstract expectation that group memberships constrain people's obligations), and their intuitive psychological theories (including expectations that mental states motivate individual behavior) to predict, explain, and evaluate morally-relevant action. Thus, moral learning involves development and change in each of these theories of the world across childhood, as well as developmental change in how children integrate information from these two intuitive theories. This perspective is supported by a series of research studies on young children's moral reasoning and learning, and compared to other developmental approaches, including more traditional forms of constructivism and more recent nativist perspectives.

Many factors appear to be related to physical activity after stroke, yet it is unclear how these factors interact and which ones might be the best predictors. Therefore, the purpose of this study was twofold: (1) to examine the relationship between walking capacity and walking activity, and (2) to investigate how biopsychosocial factors and self-efficacy relate to walking activity, above and beyond walking capacity impairment poststroke. Individuals greater than 3 months poststroke (n = 55) completed the Yesavage Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Modified Cumulative Illness Rating (MCIR) Scale, Walk 12, Activities-Specific Balance Confidence (ABC) Scale, Functional Gait Assessment (FGA), and oxygen consumption testing. Walking activity data were collected via a StepWatch Activity Monitor. Predictors were grouped into 3 constructs: (1) walking capacity: oxygen consumption and FGA; (2) biopsychosocial: GDS, FSS, and MCIR; (3) self-efficacy: Walk 12 and ABC. Moderated sequential regression models were used to examine what factors best predicted walking activity. Walking capacity explained 35.9% (P < 0.001) of the variance in walking activity. Self-efficacy (ΔR = 0.15, P < 0.001) and the interaction between the FGA×ABC (ΔR = 0.047, P < 0.001) significantly increased the variability explained. The FGA (β = 0.37, P = 0.01), MCIR (β = -0.26, P = 0.01), and Walk 12 (β = -0.45, P = 0.00) were each individually significantly associated with walking activity. Although measures of walking capacity and self-efficacy significantly contributed to "real-world" walking activity, balance self-efficacy moderated the relationship between walking capacity and walking activity. Improving balance self-efficacy may augment walking capacity and translate to improved walking activity poststroke.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A139).

We explore the developmental trajectory and underlying mechanisms of abstract relational reasoning. We describe a surprising developmental pattern: Younger learners are better than older ones at inferring abstract causal relations. Walker and Gopnik (2014) demonstrated that toddlers are able to infer that an effect was caused by a relation between two objects (whether they are the same or different), rather than by individual kinds of objects. While these findings are consistent with evidence that infants recognize same-different relations, they contrast with a large literature suggesting that older children tend to have difficulty inferring these relations. Why might this be? In Experiment 1a, we demonstrate that while younger children (18-30-month-olds) have no difficulty learning these relational concepts, older children (36-48-month-olds) fail to draw this abstract inference. Experiment 1b replicates the finding with 18-30-month-olds using a more demanding intervention task. Experiment 2 tests whether this difference in performance might be because older children have developed the general hypothesis that individual kinds of objects are causal - the high initial probability of this alternative hypothesis might override the data that favors the relational hypothesis. Providing additional information falsifying the alternative hypothesis improves older children's performance. Finally, Experiment 3 demonstrates that prompting for explanations during learning also improves performance, even without any additional information. These findings are discussed in light of recent computational and algorithmic theories of learning.

Same/Different abstract-concept learning by Clark's nutcrackers (Nucifraga columbiana) was tested with novel stimuli following learning of training set expansion (8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, and 1024 picture items). The resulting set-size function was compared to those from rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta), capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella), and pigeons (Columba livia). Nutcrackers showed partial concept learning following initial eight-item set learning, unlike the other species (Magnotti, Katz, Wright, & Kelly, 2015). The mean function for the nutcrackers' novel-stimulus transfer increased linearly as a function of the logarithm of training set size, which intersected its baseline function at the 128-item set size. Thus, nutcrackers on average achieved full concept learning (i.e., transfer statistically equivalent to baseline performance) somewhere between set sizes of 64 to 128 items, similar to full concept learning by monkeys. Pigeons required a somewhat larger training set (256 items) for full concept learning, but results from other experiments (initial training and transfer with 32- and 64-item set sizes) suggested carryover effects with smaller set sizes may have artificially prolonged the pigeon's full concept learning. We find it remarkable that these diverse species with very different neural architectures can fully learn this same/different abstract concept, and (at least under some conditions) do so with roughly similar sets sizes (64-128 items) and numbers of training exemplars, despite initial concept learning advantages (nutcrackers), learning disadvantages (pigeons), or increasing baselines (monkeys).

Appropriate reactions toward emotional stimuli depend on the distribution of prefrontal attentional resources. In mid-adolescence, prefrontal top-down control systems are less engaged, while subcortical bottom-up emotional systems are more engaged. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to follow the neural development of attentional distribution, i.e. attending versus ignoring emotional stimuli, in adolescence. 144 healthy adolescents were studied longitudinally at age 14 and 16 while performing a perceptual discrimination task. Participants viewed two pairs of stimuli--one emotional, one abstract--and reported on one pair whether the items were the same or different, while ignoring the other pair. Hence, two experimental conditions were created: "attending emotion/ignoring abstract" and "ignoring emotion/attending abstract". Emotional valence varied between negative, positive, and neutral. Across conditions, reaction times and error rates decreased and activation in the anterior cingulate and inferior frontal gyrus increased from age 14 to 16. In contrast, subcortical regions showed no developmental effect. Activation of the anterior insula increased across ages for attending positive and ignoring negative emotions. Results suggest an ongoing development of prefrontal top-down resources elicited by emotional attention from age 14 to 16 while activity of subcortical regions representing bottom-up processing remains stable.

Replies to comments by A. M. Glenberg (see record 2015-22897-006) on the author's original article (see record 2015-22897-004) on the embodied cognition debate. The core issue at stake in the debate is whether the format of thought is amodal or modality-specific. In his paper, Glenberg argues that "embodied systems do just fine accounting for perception, action, concrete cognition, and abstract cognition" and goes on to suggest that "Now the onus is on traditional cognitive scientists, those who wish to maintain a Cartesian distinction between human thought and action, a cherished and seemingly obvious belief, but ultimately, a type of flat-world hypothesis." But, is it really a "type of flat-world hypothesis" to maintain that cognitive processes can be amodal in their representational format? Mahon does not believe that it is. There is a reasonable theoretical alternative to the embodied cognition hypothesis that can account for the extant data, and which does not require adopting the view that "cognition is sensorimotor processing." That theoretical alternative (a) maintains a strict representational distinction between amodal concepts and sensorimotor systems and (b) argues that sensorimotor activation during conceptual processing reflects the structure and dynamics of connectivity between amodal representations and sensorimotor systems. The types of findings that Glenberg (2015) cites as support for embodied cognition do not distinguish between the embodied cognition hypothesis and this theoretical alternative. Furthermore, neuropsychological data indicate that sensorimotor impairments can occur without concomitant conceptual level deficits.

To systematically review reports that queried abstract authors about reasons for not subsequently publishing abstract results as full-length articles. Systematic review of MEDLINE, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, ISI Web of Science, and study bibliographies for empirical studies in which investigators examined subsequent full publication of results presented at a biomedical conference and reasons for nonpublication. The mean full publication rate was 55.9% [95% confidence interval (CI): 54.8%, 56.9%] for 24 of 27 eligible reports providing this information and 73.0% (95% CI: 71.2%, 74.7%) for seven reports of abstracts describing clinical trials. Twenty-four studies itemized 1,831 reasons for nonpublication, and six itemized 428 reasons considered the most important reason. "Lack of time" was the most frequently reported reason [weighted average = 30.2% (95% CI: 27.9%, 32.4%)] and the most important reason [weighted average = 38.4% (95% CI: 33.7%, 43.2%)]. Other commonly stated reasons were "lack of time and/or resources," "publication not an aim," "low priority," "incomplete study," and "trouble with co-authors." Across medical specialties, the main reasons for not subsequently publishing an abstract in full lie with factors related to the abstract author rather than with journals.

We consider approaches to explanation within the cognitive sciences that begin with Marr's computational level (e.g., purely Bayesian accounts of cognitive phenomena) or Marr's implementational level (e.g., reductionist accounts of cognitive phenomena based only on neural-level evidence) and argue that each is subject to fundamental limitations which impair their ability to provide adequate explanations of cognitive phenomena. For this reason, it is argued, explanation cannot proceed at either level without tight coupling to the algorithmic and representation level. Even at this level, however, we argue that additional constraints relating to the decomposition of the cognitive system into a set of interacting subfunctions (i.e., a cognitive architecture) are required. Integrated cognitive architectures that permit abstract specification of the functions of components and that make contact with the neural level provide a powerful bridge for linking the algorithmic and representational level to both the computational level and the implementational level.

Very few articles have analyzed how cognitive science as a field has changed over the last six decades. We explore how Cognition changed over the last four decades using Topic Models. Topic Models assume that every word in every document is generated by one of a limited number of topics. Words that are likely to co-occur are likely to be generated by a single topic. We find a number of significant historical trends: the rise of moral cognition, eyetracking methods, and action, the fall of sentence processing, and the stability of development. We introduce the notion of framing topics, which frame content, rather than present the content itself. These framing topics suggest that over time Cognition turned from abstract theorizing to more experimental approaches.

An epistemological foundation for cultural psychology is essential to neuro- and behavioural sciences for the challenge psychological sciences must currently face: searching for an explanation of how a brain can become a mind and how individuals assign a sense to the world and their life. Biological systems are very likely determined by physical and chemical laws of spontaneous self-organization and endogenous constraints but, even if the major result of the Darwinian revolution is "the discovery that living species are their story", the modern synthesis of the evolution theory adopted only continuist and gradualist hypotheses. This nourished the analogy between the theory of natural selection and the theory of operant conditioning, thereby supporting empiricist associationism and the methodological positivism of behavioural and "classical" cognitive psychologists. Current scientific contributions provide evidence to the need for psychotherapy and psychopathology of a new epistemological approach in order to connect research stemming from animal models, up to the most abstract levels of personal meaning. The complex system oriented approach, here described, called "post-rationalism", shaped by a change initiated by evolutionary epistemology. The regulation of emotions initially develops within interpersonal relationships and evolves during both phylogeny and ontogeny, according to complex self-organization processes, leading to the acquisition of Self-organizing abilities and the construction of personal meaning. Endorsing the epistemological similarities of neo-Darwinism and behaviourism, and differentiating from this, the above mentioned approach, emphasises the fact that clinical and psycho-therapeutical practice must be founded on the laws of biological organisation: the ongoing activity of neurobiological systems, including the more abstract domains of thought and language.

Baby-led breastfeeding is recommended as best practice in determining the frequency and duration of a breastfeed. An alternative approach is described as scheduled, where breastfeeding is timed and restricted in frequency and duration. It is necessary to review the evidence that supports current recommendations, so that mothers are provided with high-quality evidence to inform their feeding decisions. To evaluate the effects of baby-led compared with scheduled (or mixed) breastfeeding for successful breastfeeding, for healthy newborns. We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (13 November 2013), CINAHL (1981 to 13 November 2013), EThOS, Index to Theses and ProQuest database and World Health Organization's 1998 evidence to support the 'Ten Steps' to successful breastfeeding (6 November 2013). Randomised and quasi-randomised trials with randomisation at both the individual and cluster level. Studies presented in abstract form were eligible for inclusion if sufficient data were available. Studies using a cross-over design were not eligible for inclusion. We independently assessed for inclusion all the potential studies we identified as a result of the search strategy. We would have resolved any disagreement through discussion or, if required, consulted a third review author, but this was not necessary. No studies were identified that were eligible for inclusion in this review. This review demonstrates that there is no evidence from randomised controlled trials evaluating the effect of baby-led compared with scheduled (or mixed) breastfeeding for successful breastfeeding, for healthy newborns, therefore no conclusions could be taken at this point. It is recommended that no changes are made to current practice guidelines without undertaking further robust research, to include many patterns of breastfeeding and not limited to baby-led and scheduled breastfeeding. Further research is needed to also evaluate the effects of baby-led compared with scheduled (or mixed) breastfeeding on successful breastfeeding, for healthy newborns. However, conducting such a study, particularly a randomised controlled trial is unlikely to receive ethical approval, as the issue of obtaining informed consent from new mothers or mothers-to-be for randomisation between baby-led and scheduled breastfeeding is a difficult one and it is likely that the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative practices would prohibit such a study.

Training cognitive flexibility in preschoolers is of great interest but is not easy to achieve. In three experiments, we studied the effects of feedback on preschoolers' switch behavior with a computerized version of the Dimensional Change Card Sorting (DCCS) task. The task was designed such that feedback was connected to the stimulus and causally related to children's behavior. Experiments 1 and 2 showed that children receiving feedback on their post-switch behavior performed better than children administered a standard (no feedback) DCCS task. This effect transferred to a subsequent standard DCCS task after 5 min and after 1 week. Experiment 3 showed that children switched to the new post-switch sorting rules and not to rules that oppose the pre-switch sorting rules. These results highlight preschoolers' sensitivity to the design of feedback in learning an abstract rule.

Learning and discovery seem often to begin with noting patterns. Human infants are skilled at pattern detection, even patterns only definable at an abstract level, which is key to their acquisition of complex knowledge systems such as language and music. However, research examining infants' abstract rule learning has generated inconsistent results. We propose that apparent domain differences in infants' abstract rule learning may be the result of extraneous stimulus variation and discrepancies in the methodologies employed across studies probing this skill. We discuss how a behavioral methodology indexing infants' online learning would be valuable in furthering understanding of infants' (as well as adults') abstract rule learning and its neurophysiological concomitants. We outline current research aimed at developing such an index, and we propose future research, pairing such techniques with neurophysiological methods, aimed at shining more light on human skill at discovering structure.

Three studies tested the hypothesis, derived from construal-level theory, that hierarchical distance between leaders and followers moderates the effectiveness of leader behaviors such that abstract behaviors produce more positive outcomes when enacted across large hierarchical distances, whereas concrete behaviors produce more positive outcomes when enacted across small hierarchical distances. In Study 1 (N = 2,206 employees of a telecommunication organization), job satisfaction was higher when direct supervisors provided employees with concrete feedback and hierarchically distant leaders shared with them their abstract vision rather than vice versa. Study 2 orthogonally crossed hierarchical distances with communication type, operationalized as articulating abstract values versus sharing a detailed story exemplifying the same values; construal misfit mediated the interactive effects of hierarchical distance and communication type on organizational commitment and social bonding. Study 3 similarly manipulated hierarchical distances and communication type, operationalized as concrete versus abstract calls for action in the context of a severe professional crisis. Group commitment and participation in collective action were higher when a hierarchically proximate leader communicated a concrete call for action and a hierarchically distant leader communicated an abstract call for action rather than vice versa. These findings highlight construal fit's positive consequences for individuals and organizations.

The abstractness of rule representations in the pre-switch phase of the Dimensional Change Card Sorting (DCCS) task was studied by letting 3- and 4-year-old children perform a standard DCCS task and a separate generalization task. In the generalization task, children were asked to generalize their sorting rules to novel stimuli in one of three conditions. In the relevant change condition, values of the relevant dimension changed; in the irrelevant change condition, values of the irrelevant dimension changed; and in the total change condition, values of both dimensions changed. All children showed high performance on the generalization task in the relevant change condition, implying an abstract rule representation at the level of dimensions ("same colors go together"). Performance in the relevant change condition was significantly better (and faster) than performance in the other two conditions. Children with high cognitive flexibility (switchers on the DCCS task) more often switched their attention to the irrelevant dimension in the generalization task only if values of the irrelevant dimension changed. Children with low cognitive flexibility (perseverators) were more often inconsistent in their sorting on the generalization task if values of both dimensions changed. The difference in performance on the DCCS task between switchers and perseverators seems to result from the processes that operate on the learned sorting rules and not from the abstractness of the rule representations children have.

Tokenism is a situation in which a member of a distinctive category is treated differently from other people. This article is about the situation in which Tokens (people perceived as distinctive) are considered experts on something for having the properties of a token (the thing which makes them distinctive). Tokens who differ by appearance or by being born into another culture might be considered experts on cultures grouped into the same racial/cultural category. Tokens who differ by being skilled in number-related mathematics might be considered experts on the mathematization of phenomena. Tokens might say that some result is valid for all people in some racial/cultural category without sufficient evidence, or use number-related mathematics as a mathematization of psychological phenomena without trying to find more abstract mathematizations. This harms psychological research. A possible future genesis of cultural and number tokenisms is discussed, and some suggestions to improve the discourse offered. The effect of tokenism might be diminished if psychologists focus on more proper thinking about psychological phenomena.

This study examined individual differences in the ability to recognise involuntary autobiographical memories. We hypothesised that individuals may not always recognise involuntary memories which are cued by abstract experiences (e.g., thoughts or language), while they are better able to recognise those which are cued by concrete sensory/perpetual experiences. We hypothesised that individuals without formal training in psychology would be more prone to these recognition failures than individuals with training in psychology. We tested the hypothesis by comparing the results of general first-year undergraduate students, graduate students in psychology and graduates students in other disciplines after each had participated in a two-week diary study of their naturally occurring involuntary memories. The results showed undergraduate participants and non-psychology graduate participants reporting fewer involuntary memories being triggered by abstract cues than the graduate psychology participants, while the groups did not differ in the report of memories triggered by sensory/perpetual cues. The implications of the findings are discussed.

Argentine tango is a complex phenomenon, involving music, dancing and lifestyle, today practiced by hundreds of thousands of people worldwide. This is already a good reason for psychology to make it an object of study. Besides, studying tango could also help to develop a dialogical way of theorizing and a dialogical methodology, taking into account both the genetic historical and eso-systemic dimensions and the individual experiencing. As any other product of human psyche, tango creates an universal and abstract representation of life starting from very situated and individual acts. Such institutionalized representation, which is at the same time epistemological, ethical and aesthetical, becomes a tradition -that is the framework distanced from the individual immediate experience- within which the meaning of the experiences to be make sense in return. To illustrate this epistemological and methodological stance, a history of the development of tango as dialogical social object first is sketched. Then, an ethnographic study about the Self actuation in a community of Italian tango dancers is presented. Results show how participants construct and actuate their identities in a dialogue between their I-positions inside and outside tango community.

Psychology is relevant for improving the use of simulation in anesthesiology, as it allows us to describe, explain and optimize the interactions of learners and instructors as well as the design of simulation scenarios and debriefings. Much psychological expertise is not used for simulation in healthcare. This article aims to help bridging the gap between professions. The evidence is building that simulation is effective for learning. Recent psychological work improves the understanding of why this is the case - or why not. Publications range from the elements to be simulated, to optimizing the presentation of scenarios and debriefings to an organizational overview of how simulation can contribute to patient safety, healthcare worker well-beings and quality of care. The psychological analysis helps in capturing the salient characteristics of the tasks to be simulated and in implementing them in a relevant learning setting. Using psychology in simulation allows us to create, recognize and use learning opportunities. The motivations of those involved can be taken into account and the simulation activity can be channeled into a goal-oriented direction. See the Video Supplementary Digital Content 1 (http://links.lww.com/COAN/A26).

The article sets out the value of theorizing collective action from a social science perspective that engages with the messy actuality of practice. It argues that community health psychology relies on an abstract version of Paulo Freire's earlier writing, the Pedagogy of the Oppressed, which provides scholar-activists with a 'map' approach to collective action. The article revisits Freire's later work, the Pedagogy of Hope, and argues for the importance of developing a 'journey' approach to collective action. Theories of practice are discussed for their value in theorizing such journeys, and in bringing maps (intentions) and journeys (actuality) closer together.

Quantum cognition research applies abstract, mathematical principles of quantum theory to inquiries in cognitive science. It differs fundamentally from alternative speculations about quantum brain processes. This topic presents new developments within this research program. In the introduction to this topic, we try to answer three questions: Why apply quantum concepts to human cognition? How is quantum cognitive modeling different from traditional cognitive modeling? What cognitive processes have been modeled using a quantum account? In addition, a brief introduction to quantum probability theory and a concrete example is provided to illustrate how a quantum cognitive model can be developed to explain paradoxical empirical findings in psychological literature.

Children often struggle to behave flexibly when they must use self-directed goals (e.g., doing homework without prompting) rather than externally driven goals (e.g., cleaning up when told). Such struggles may reflect the demands of selecting among many potential options, as required for self-directed control. The current study tested whether (a) 6-year-old children show difficulty in selecting among competing semantic representations, (b) providing category labels designed to reduce selection demands improves performance, and (c) such benefits transfer to self-directed flexibility. Selection was measured using the blocked cyclic naming task for the first time with children. Pictures were named repeatedly in either homogeneous blocks from the same category (e.g., all animals), which create high selection demands due to spreading semantic activation and engage effortful cognitive control, or mixed blocks with each picture from a different category. Children showed robust difficulty in selecting among options, as indexed by response time (RT) differences between homogeneous and mixed blocks. Providing subcategory labels designed to reduce selection demands by distinguishing among same-category items (e.g., "A cow is a farm animal. A cat is a pet.") improved selection. Providing superordinate categories (e.g., "A cow is an animal. A cat is an animal.") also improved selection, but these benefits were less robust, and subcategory labels led to greater benefits than superordinate category labels on a subsequent verbal fluency task. These results support a role for subcategory representations in reducing selection demands to aid self-directed flexibility while suggesting that some children may use superordinate category labels to activate subcategory representations on their own.

A growing literature considers whether animals have capacities that are akin to human metacognition (i.e., humans' capacity to monitor their states of uncertainty and knowing). Comparative psychologists have approached this question by testing a dolphin, pigeons, rats, monkeys, and apes using perception, memory, and food-concealment paradigms. As part of this consideration, some associative modelers have attempted to describe animals' "metacognitive" performances in low-level, associative terms-an important goal if achievable. The authors summarize the empirical and theoretical situation regarding these associative descriptions. The associative descriptions in the animal-metacognition literature fail to encompass important phenomena. The sharp focus on abstract, mathematical associative models creates serious interpretative problems. The authors compare these failed associative descriptions with an alternative theoretical approach within contemporary comparative psychology. The alternative approach has the potential to strengthen comparative psychology as an empirical science and integrate it more fully within the mainstream of experimental psychology and cognitive science.

The goal of adolescence is to gain independence and establish a secure identity. • Adolescents’ cognitive development can result in abstract thinking that can predispose them to risktaking behavior and a sense of invincibility. • Clinicians can use the primary care visit to promote independence and prepare parents for the features experienced during adolescent development. • Parental or supervisory monitoring is critical in ensuring that teens remain safe while gradually becoming more independent.

Abstract Countertransference (CT) reactions can negatively affect psychotherapy, and research has found that effectively managing these reactions is positively associated with psychotherapy outcome (Hayes, Gelso, & Hummel, 2011). Therefore, it is important to understand factors that might facilitate CT management. In this study, 78 therapist trainees completed measures of meditation experience, mindfulness, and self-differentiation, and their supervisors rated trainees' CT management qualities. Results indicated that trainees' meditation experience predicted CT management qualities but self-differentiation did not; one aspect of mindfulness, non-reactivity, was related to CT management qualities. Implications for theory, practice, research, and supervision are discussed.

Abstract Purpose: Group singing could be a promising component of neurorehabilitative care. This article aims to conceptualize how group singing may enable people with Parkinson's disease (PD) to synchronize their movement patterns to musical rhythm and enhance quality of life. Spanning the medical and social sciences, the article draws conceptually on literature on PD, group singing and rhythm in music; personal experience; and reasoning. Conceptualizing PD in terms of disruptions to social and biological rhythms, we hypothesize how group singing may produce two socio-psychological states - connectedness and flow - that may entrain rhythm in people with PD. The states connect during group singing to elicit and enhance motor processes but may also reawaken after the group singing, through the recall and reactivation of the musical rhythms encoded during group singing. In people with PD, this continuity of flow is hypothesized to be conducive to rhythmic entrainment during and after group singing and in turn to reduced deficits in motor timing and emotional processing, and improvements in quality of life. Empirical studies are needed to test this hypothesis in people with movement disorders such as PD. Implications for Rehabilitation Musical rhythm in group singing may enhance quality of life, and rehabilitation, in people with PD. Use group singing to produce two socio-psychological states - connectedness and flow - that may yield these health benefits. Include people with PD in singing groups to facilitate perceptual exposure to familiar music with melodic distinctiveness and a regular beat.

Clark offers a powerful description of the brain as a prediction machine, which offers progress on two distinct levels. First, on an abstract conceptual level, it provides a unifying framework for perception, action, and cognition (including subdivisions such as attention, expectation, and imagination). Second, hierarchical prediction offers progress on a concrete descriptive level for testing and constraining conceptual elements and mechanisms of predictive coding models (estimation of predictions, prediction errors, and internal models).

Infants need to analyze human behavior in terms of goal-directed actions in order to form expectations about agents' rationality. There is converging evidence for goal encoding during the first year of life from looking time as well as social learning paradigms using imitation procedures. However, conceptual interpretations of these abilities are challenged by low-level motor resonance accounts that propose task-specific lower level sensorimotor associations underlying looking time tasks rather than abstract conceptual knowledge. To test the differential predictions derived from the two accounts, we investigated within-child consistency of performance on different, but conceptually related, tasks requiring goal encoding. This study presented seven-month-old infants with a looking time task and an imitation task, both testing their ability to encode an action goal based on a reaching action, as well as a working memory task to control for the influence of general cognitive capacity. Results showed inter task convergence to be independent of working memory: infants who spent more time looking at goal change events in the looking time task were more likely to selectively reproduce the goal in the imitation task when the model had performed an intentional grasping action rather than a back-of-hand object contact. These findings support the view that low-level motor resonance mechanisms are not sufficient to explain the capacities of action understanding in infants.

As humans, we are attuned to the moods and emotions of others. This understanding of emotions enables us to interpret other people's actions on the basis of their emotional displays. However, the development of this capacity is not well understood. Here we show a developmental pattern in 10- and 14-month-old infants' sensitivity to others' emotions and actions. Infants were shown video clips in which happy or angry actors performed a positive action (patting a toy tiger) or a negative action (thumping the toy tiger). Only 14-month-olds, but not 10-month-olds, showed selectively greater sympathetic activity (i.e., pupil dilation) both when an angry actor performed the positive action and when a happy actor performed the negative action, in contrast to the actors performing the actions congruent with their displayed emotions. These results suggest that at the beginning of the second year of life, infants become sensitive to the congruence of other people's emotions and actions, indicating an emerging abstract concept of emotions during infancy. The results are discussed in light of previous research on emotion understanding during infancy.

A U-shaped curve in a cognitive-developmental trajectory refers to a three-step process: good performance followed by bad performance followed by good performance once again. U-shaped curves have been observed in a wide variety of cognitive-developmental and learning contexts. U-shaped learning seems to contradict the idea that learning is a monotonic, cumulative process and thus constitutes a challenge for competing theories of cognitive development and learning. U-shaped behavior in language learning (in particular in learning English past tense) has become a central topic in the Cognitive Science debate about learning models. Antagonist models (e.g., connectionism versus nativism) are often judged on their ability of modeling or accounting for U-shaped behavior. The prior literature is mostly occupied with explaining how U-shaped behavior occurs. Instead, we are interested in the necessity of this kind of apparently inefficient strategy. We present and discuss a body of results in the abstract mathematical setting of (extensions of) Gold-style computational learning theory addressing a mathematically precise version of the following question: Are there learning tasks that require U-shaped behavior? All notions considered are learning in the limit from positive data. We present results about the necessity of U-shaped learning in classical models of learning as well as in models with bounds on the memory of the learner. The pattern emerges that, for parameterized, cognitively relevant learning criteria, beyond very few initial parameter values, U-shapes are necessary for full learning power! We discuss the possible relevance of the above results for the Cognitive Science debate about learning models as well as directions for future research.

Abstract This study examined a client's therapeutic progress within one session of an 18-session child neurological assessment. The analysis focused on a parent-psychologist dialogue in one session of the assessment process. Dialogical sequence analysis (DSA; Leiman, 2004, 2012) was used as a micro-analytic method to examine the developing discourse. The analysis traced the mother's developing of a reflective stance toward herself and her problematic ways of interacting with her daughter, who was the client. During the dialogue, the mother began to recognize her own contribution in maintaining the problematic pattern. Her gradual acknowledgment of the child's perspective and her growing sense of the child's otherness were mediated by an observer position (third-person view) toward the problematic pattern, which allowed a flexible exchange between the perspectives of self and the other. The results demonstrate the parallel development of intrapersonal and interpersonal empathy shown previously to characterize the transition from stage 3 (problem statement/clarification) to stage 4 (understanding/insight) in the assimilation of problematic experiences sequence (Brinegar, Salvi, Stiles, & Greenberg, 2006).

A critical question for developmental psychologists concerns how representations in infancy are best characterized. Past and current research provides paradoxical evidence regarding the nature of early representations: in some ways, infants appear to build concrete and specific representations that guide their online perception and understanding of different events; in other ways, infants appear to possess abstract representations that support inferences regarding unseen event outcomes. Characterizing the nature of early representations across domains is a central charge for developmentalists because this task can provide important information regarding the underlying learning process or processes that drive development. Yet, little existing work has attempted to resolve this paradox by characterizing the ways in which infants' representations may have both abstract and concrete elements. The goal of this chapter is to take a close look at infants' early representations of goal-directed action in order to describe the nature of these representations. We first discuss the nature of representations of action that infants build through acting on the world and argue that these representations possess both concrete and abstract elements. On the one hand, infants appear to build representations of action that stress goal-relevant features of actions in an action- or event-specific fashion, suggesting specificity or concreteness. On the other hand, these representations are sufficiently abstract to not only drive action but also support infants' perception of others actions and to support inferences regarding unseen action outcomes. We next discuss evidence to suggest that by the end of the first year of life, infants possess increasingly abstract representations of the actions of others and use contextual cues, including linguistic statements accompanying action, to flexibly specify the level of representational specificity. We further consider the possibility that language may play a role in infants' ability to build more abstract representations of goal-directed action.

In two experiments, we recorded infants' eye movements to test whether the efficiency of the action influences infants' ability to anticipate the outcome of an ongoing action performed by abstract figures. In Experiment 1, we found that predictive eye movements were elicited by both nonefficient and efficient actions, but anticipation of the outcome occurred much earlier in the efficient action condition. Experiment 2 was designed to test the effect of saliency of the goal and the possibility that automatic extrapolation of the movement was partly responsible for the predictive gaze shifts in Experiment 1. We found that when automatic extrapolation was prevented and the goal was not salient, infants showed predictive gaze shifts only in the efficient action condition. Taken together, our findings support the importance of teleological inferences in anticipating the goals of ongoing actions.

From the late 1950s until 1975, cognition was understood mainly as disembodied symbol manipulation in cognitive psychology, linguistics, artificial intelligence, and the nascent field of Cognitive Science. The idea of embodied cognition entered the field of Cognitive Linguistics at its beginning in 1975. Since then, cognitive linguists, working with neuroscientists, computer scientists, and experimental psychologists, have been developing a neural theory of thought and language (NTTL). Central to NTTL are the following ideas: (a) we think with our brains, that is, thought is physical and is carried out by functional neural circuitry; (b) what makes thought meaningful are the ways those neural circuits are connected to the body and characterize embodied experience; (c) so-called abstract ideas are embodied in this way as well, as is language. Experimental results in embodied cognition are seen not only as confirming NTTL but also explained via NTTL, mostly via the neural theory of conceptual metaphor. Left behind more than three decades ago is the old idea that cognition uses the abstract manipulation of disembodied symbols that are meaningless in themselves but that somehow constitute internal "representations of external reality" without serious mediation by the body and brain. This article uniquely explains the connections between embodied cognition results since that time and results from cognitive linguistics, experimental psychology, computational modeling, and neuroscience.

Titles of journal articles serve to attract attention and inform potential readers. All titles from 65 volumes of American Psychologist (1946-2010, N = 12,313 titles) were studied in terms of their emotionality, style, and contents. Several trends noted for titles in different kinds of journals from psychology and other disciplines were present in American Psychologist (increasing title length, increasing use of punctuation marks, increasing employment of words with pleasant and arousing connotations, variations in the frequency of different content words). Longer titles allow authors to specify more information, and emotionally upbeat titles are more likely to attract reader attention. In an unexpected quadratic trend, titles became more abstract and the number of titles increased until about 1985, after which the trend was reversed and titles became more concrete as their numbers decreased. Predictors of this trend include societal variables and the journal's editorial policies.

QuikScan (QS) is an innovative design that aims to improve accessibility, comprehensibility, and subsequent recall of expository text by means of frequent within-document summaries that are formatted as numbered list items. The numbers in the QS summaries correspond to numbers placed in the body of the document where the summarized ideas are discussed in full. To examine the influence of QS summaries on participants' perceptions of text quality (i.e., comprehensibility, structure, and interest) and recall, an experimental - control group design compared the effects of a QS text with a structured abstract (SA) text. Forty psychology students participated voluntarily or received course credits. Students first read a control (SA) or experimental (QS) text on flashbulb memory (FBM). Next, their perceptions of text quality were measured through a questionnaire. Recall was assessed with an open answer test with items for facts, comprehension and higher order information. Perceptions of text quality did not vary across conditions. But QS did lead to significantly and substantially (d= 1.57) higher overall recall scores. Participants with the QS text performed significantly better on all item types than participants with the SA text. Studying a QS text led to a substantial improvement in recall compared to an SA text. Further research is needed to examine how readers study QS texts and whether a text model hypothesis or a repetition effect hypothesis accounts for the effectiveness. The first hypothesis posits that the QS summaries support the reader in constructing a text schema. The second attributes the effects of these summaries to their repetition of text topics.

This paper examines the claims of the Gestalt psychologists that there was a crisis in experimental psychology ca. 1900, which arose because the prevailing sensory atomism excluded meaning from among psychological phenomena. The Gestaltists claim that a primary motivation of their movement was to show, against the speculative psychologists and philosophers and Verstehen historians, that natural scientific psychology can handle meaning. Purportedly, they revealed this motivation in their initial German-language presentations but in English emphasized their scientific accomplishments for an American audience. The paper finds that: there was a recognized crisis in the new experimental psychology ca. 1900 pertaining especially to sensory atomism; that the Gestaltists responded to the crisis with new experimental findings and theoretical concepts (Gestalten) that challenged atomism; in both languages, they raised problems of meaning and discussed the contest with speculative psychology and philosophy only after presenting their scientific case; that they introduced phenomenological observations on meaning and perceptual organization into their psychology but did not develop a theory of meaning or solve philosophical problems; that they argued "philosophically," that is, using abstract, conceptual arguments; and that this aspect of their cognitive style was not received well by some prominent members of their American audience.

The role of dopamine neurons in value-guided behavior has been described in computationally explicit terms. These developments have motivated new model-based probes of reward processing in healthy humans, and in recent years these same models have also been used to design and understand neural responses during simple social exchange. These latter applications have opened up the possibility of identifying new endophenotypes characteristic of biological substrates underlying psychiatric disease. In this report, we review model-based approaches to functional magnetic resonance imaging in healthy individuals and the application of these paradigms to psychiatric disorders. We show early results from the application of model-based human interaction at three disparate levels: 1) interaction with a single human, 2) interaction within small groups, and 3) interaction with signals generated by large groups. In each case, we show how reward-prediction circuitry is engaged by abstract elements of each paradigm with blood oxygen level-dependent imaging as a read-out; and, in the last case (i.e., signals generated by large groups) we report on direct electrochemical dopamine measurements during decision making in humans. Lastly, we discuss how computational approaches can be used to objectively assess and quantify elements of complex and hidden social decision-making processes.

We aimed to determine the quantitative scientific publication output of child and adolescent psychiatric/psychological affiliations during 2005-2010 by country based on both, "PubMed" and "Scopus" and performed a bibliometric qualitative evaluation for 2009 using "PubMed". We performed our search by affiliation related to child and adolescent psychiatric/psychological institutions using "PubMed". For the quantitative analysis for 2005-2010, we counted the number of abstracts. For the qualitative analysis for 2009 we derived the impact factor of each abstract's journal from "Journal Citation Reports". We related total impact factor scores to the gross domestic product (GDP) and population size of each country. Additionally, we used "Scopus" to determine the number of abstracts for each country that was identified via "PubMed" for 2009 and compared the ranking of countries between the two databases. 61 % of the publications between 2005 and 2010 originated from European countries and 26 % from the USA. After adjustment for GDP and population size, the ranking positions changed in favor of smaller European countries with a population size of less than 20 million inhabitants. The ranking of countries for the count of articles in 2009 as derived from "Scopus" was similar to that identified via the "PubMed" search. The performed search revealed only minor differences between "Scopus" and "PubMed" related to the ranking of countries. Our data indicate a sharp difference between countries with a high versus low GDP with regard to scientific publication output in child and adolescent psychiatry/psychology.

After more than 15 years of study, the 1/f noise or complex-systems approach to cognitive science has delivered promises of progress, colorful verbiage, and statistical analyses of phenomena whose relevance for cognition remains unclear. What the complex-systems approach has arguably failed to deliver are concrete insights about how people perceive, think, decide, and act. Without formal models that implement the proposed abstract concepts, the complex-systems approach to cognitive science runs the danger of becoming a philosophical exercise in futility. The complex-systems approach can be informative and innovative, but only if it is implemented as a formal model that allows concrete prediction, falsification, and comparison against more traditional approaches.

Abstract The association of personality traits to personality disorders (PDs) is assumed by many to fit a dimensional model, where PDs emerge at the extremes of personality dimensions. Nevertheless, attempts to demonstrate such an association have been empirically disappointing and conceptually unilluminating. In this article we attempt to extend such models by outlining the neurobehavioural systems that underlie major personality traits, and highlight the evidence that they are subject to experience-dependent modification that can be enduring through effects on genetic expression, mainly through processes known as epigenetics. It is through such processes that risk for personality disorder may be modified by experience at any point in development, but perhaps especially during early critical periods of development. We conclude by presenting a novel multidimensional model of PDs that relies on the concepts developed earlier in the article. Our goal is to provide a guide for research on the psychobiological nature and pharmacological treatment of PDs.

Aesthetic non-cognitivists deny that aesthetic statements express genuinely aesthetic beliefs and instead hold that they work primarily to express something non-cognitive, such as attitudes of approval or disapproval, or desire. Non-cognitivists deny that aesthetic statements express aesthetic beliefs because they deny that there are aesthetic features in the world for aesthetic beliefs to represent. Their assumption, shared by scientists and theorists of mind alike, was that language-users possess cognitive mechanisms with which to objectively grasp abstract rules fixed independently of human responses, and that cognizers are thereby capable of grasping rules for the correct application of aesthetic concepts without relying on evaluation or enculturation. However, in this article I use Wittgenstein's rule-following considerations to argue that psychological theories grounded upon this so-called objective model of rule-following fail to adequately account for concept acquisition and mastery. I argue that this is because linguistic enculturation, and the perceptual learning that's often involved, influences and enables the mastery of aesthetic concepts. I argue that part of what's involved in speaking aesthetically is to belong to a cultural practice of making sense of things aesthetically, and that it's within a socio-linguistic community, and that community's practices, that such aesthetic sense can be made intelligible.

Ownership and economic behaviors are highly salient elements of the human social landscape. Indeed, the human world is literally constructed of property. Individuals perceive and manipulate a complex web of people and property that is largely invisible and abstract. In this chapter, the authors focus on drawing together information from a variety of disciplines, including legal theory, philosophy, psychology, and economics, to begin creating a coherent picture of the cognitive architecture that underlies ownership concepts. In doing so, the authors review theories of ownership and discuss recent research that highlights the unique contributions garnered by studying ownership in a developmental context.

The idea that language mediates our thoughts and enables abstract cognition has been a key idea in socio-cultural psychology. However, it is not clear what mechanisms support this process of abstraction. Peirce argued that one mechanism by which language enables abstract thought is hypostatic abstraction, the process through which a predicate (e.g., dark) turns into an object (e.g., darkness). By using novel computational tools we tested Peirce's idea. Analysis of the data provides empirical support for Peirce's mechanism and evidence of the way the use of signs enables abstraction. These conclusions are supported by the in-depth analysis of two case studies concerning the abstraction of sweet and dark. The paper concludes by discussing the findings from a broad and integrative theoretical perspective and by pointing to computational cultural psychology as a promising perspective for addressing long-lasting questions of the field.

Abstract reasoning is critical for science and mathematics, but is very difficult. In 3 studies, the hypothesis that alternatives generation required for conditional reasoning with false premises facilitates abstract reasoning is examined. Study 1 (n = 372) found that reasoning with false premises improved abstract reasoning in 12- to 15-year-olds. Study 2 (n = 366) found a positive effect of simply generating alternatives, but only in 19-year-olds. Study 3 (n = 92) found that 9- to 11-year-olds were able to respond logically with false premises, whereas no such ability was observed in 6- to 7-year-olds. Reasoning with false premises was found to improve reasoning with semiabstract premises in the older children. These results support the idea that alternatives generation with false premises facilitates abstract reasoning.

Research has shown that a hallmark of adolescent development is the growing capacity to interpret human intentionality. In this chapter, the authors examine developmental change in this capacity, which they have termed interpretive thought, in two types of stories, family and autobiographical, told by Canadian youth aged ten to seventeen years. Illustrative examples reveal that youth coordinate an increasing number of psychological components and in so doing, create increasingly abstract and coherent psychological profiles of self and others.

The purpose was to develop a preliminary scale to measure Korean adolescents' health behaviors through a qualitative approach, to evaluate the scale psychometrically, and to develop a final scale. Participants were 61 adolescents for qualitative interviews and 1,687 adolescents for the psychometric evaluation. Procedure included content analysis of interviews to identify health behavior categories for Korean adolescents, pre-test to confirm that preliminary scale items were understandable, content validity by an expert panel, development of the web-based computer-assisted survey (CAS), and psychometric analysis to determine reliability and validity of the final scale. A final scale was developed for both paper-and-pencil and CAS. It consisted of 14 health behaviors (72 items), including stress and mental health (10), sleep habits (5), dietary habits (12), weight control (4), physical activity (4), hygiene habits (5), tobacco use (5), substance use (2), alcohol consumption (4), safety (4), sexual behavior (9), computer use (3), health screening (4), and posture (1). The scale's strong points are: 1) Two thirds of the final scale items are Likert scale items, enabling calculation of a health behavior score. 2) The scale is appropriate to Korean culture. 3) The scale focuses on concrete health behaviors, not abstract concepts.

Hope has been studied within various disciplines since at least the 1950s, as researchers have attempted to describe, explain, and predict the association between human functioning and this seemingly vital-yet often abstract-construct. Recent work by Snyder and colleagues identified future goal orientation as a necessary component of hope. For developmental scientists, understanding the associations between hope and intentional self regulation strategies that may help young people achieve their goals could provide insight into the positive development of youth. In this chapter, we present a developmental systems framework for elucidating the links between hope and adaptive developmental outcomes, and we discuss recent research that provides evidence for the relationship between hopeful future expectations and thriving in the adolescent period. Finally, we provide guidelines for taking the next steps in not only assessing hope among diverse youth, but also in harnessing that hope for positive constructions of adolescents' pathways to adulthood.

There has been a growing interest in understanding the complex cognitive processes that give rise to human reasoning. This review focuses on the cognitive and neural characteristics of relational reasoning and analogy performance. Initially relational reasoning studies that have investigated the neural basis of abstract reasoning with an emphasis on the prefrontal cortex are described. Next studies of analogical reasoning are reviewed with insights from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies. Additionally, studies of cognitive components in analogical reasoning are described. This review draws together insights from numerous studies and concludes that prefrontal areas exhibit domain independence in relational reasoning, while posterior areas within the temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes show evidence of domain dependence in reasoning. Lastly, future directions in the study of relational reasoning are discussed.

Human cognition relies on the ability to extract generalizable knowledge from limited evidence. One type of inductive learning, overhypothesis formation, allows learners to make inferences that take them beyond the limits of direct experience, leading to the creation of abstract knowledge. The developmental roots of this ability have yet to be investigated. We report three experiments examining whether 9-month-old infants are capable of forming overhypotheses. Our results show that when given evidence about a few objects in some category, infants formed a second-order generalization about categories in general. These findings provide evidence that infants possess a powerful mechanism for inductive learning-a mechanism that may be applied to many domains and that can account for the development of many inductive biases later on.

Generally speaking, this paper comments on the role of qualitative methods in scientific psychology. To begin with, general and special methodology are defined; then, the main uses of qualitative methods are described and the focus of the paper on the study of meaning and of abstract concepts in the context of embodied cognition is justified. It is emphasized that three uses of qualitative methods converge in the study of embodied cognition: (1) classification, given that it is centered on concepts, (2) discovery, because theories are not yet well articulated and inductive effort is required, and (3) the study of meaning. The final recommendation is to profit from the opportunity of constructing special techniques that the transformation of cognitive psychology is favoring; in this context, varieties of emotion become a privileged object of study.

Authors have claimed that Internet-based instruction promotes greater learning efficiency than non-computer methods. determine, through a systematic synthesis of evidence in health professions education, how Internet-based instruction compares with non-computer instruction in time spent learning, and what features of Internet-based instruction are associated with improved learning efficiency. we searched databases including MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, and ERIC from 1990 through November 2008. STUDY SELECTION AND DATA ABSTRACTION we included all studies quantifying learning time for Internet-based instruction for health professionals, compared with other instruction. Reviewers worked independently, in duplicate, to abstract information on interventions, outcomes, and study design. we identified 20 eligible studies. Random effects meta-analysis of 8 studies comparing Internet-based with non-Internet instruction (positive numbers indicating Internet longer) revealed pooled effect size (ES) for time -0.10 (p = 0.63). Among comparisons of two Internet-based interventions, providing feedback adds time (ES 0.67, p =0.003, two studies), and greater interactivity generally takes longer (ES 0.25, p = 0.089, five studies). One study demonstrated that adapting to learner prior knowledge saves time without significantly affecting knowledge scores. Other studies revealed that audio narration, video clips, interactive models, and animations increase learning time but also facilitate higher knowledge and/or satisfaction. Across all studies, time correlated positively with knowledge outcomes (r = 0.53, p = 0.021). on average, Internet-based instruction and non-computer instruction require similar time. Instructional strategies to enhance feedback and interactivity typically prolong learning time, but in many cases also enhance learning outcomes. Isolated examples suggest potential for improving efficiency in Internet-based instruction.

The local dominance effect is the tendency for comparisons with a few, discrete individuals to have a greater influence on self-assessments than comparisons with larger aggregates. This review presents a series of recent studies that demonstrate the local dominance effect. The authors offer two primary explanations for the effect and consider alternatives including social categorization and the abstract versus concrete nature of local versus general comparisons. They then discuss moderators of the effect including physical proximity and self-enhancement. Finally, the theoretical and practical implications of the effect are discussed and potential future directions in this research line are proposed.

To read this article's abstract in both Spanish and Mandarin Chinese, please visit the article's full-text page on Wiley InterScience (http://interscience.wiley.com/journal/famp). The aim of our study is to examine the interface between children's physiological changes and the specificities of parental conflict, and to develop a procedure in which such information can be shared with the family for therapeutic change. Children from 20 families were exposed to parental conflict discussion (CD) while their arousals were measured through skin conductance and heart rate sensors. It was found that regardless of the subject of the argument, 80% of the time they were complaining about each other. Likewise, 80% of the time the children were responding to the parents' own interpersonal tension, including moments of silence. The protocol established for the study, consisting of CD and debriefing, was found to be a powerful tool in moving parents toward conflict resolution.

According to politeness theory (P. Brown & S. Levinson, 1987), politeness serves to both reflect and regulate social distance. On the basis of this notion and on construal level theory (N. Liberman & Y. Trope, 2008; N. Liberman, Y. Trope, & E. Stephan, 2007), it was predicted that politeness would be related to abstract construal, temporal distance, and spatial distance. Eight studies supported this prediction. Politeness increased when the addressees were construed abstractly (Study 1), were temporally distant (Studies 2, 3), and were spatially distant (Study 4). It was also found that increasing politeness produced abstract construals (Study 5), greater temporal distance (Study 6), and greater spatial distance (Study 7, 8). These findings shed light on the way politeness operates in different cultures and is conveyed in different languages, and they support the idea that dimensions of psychological distance are interrelated.

This study investigated how 4-month-old infants represent sequences: Do they track the statistical relations among specific sequence elements (e.g., AB, BC) or do they encode abstract ordinal positions (i.e., B is second)? Infants were habituated to sequences of 4 moving and sounding elements-3 of the elements varied in their ordinal position while the position of 1 target element remained invariant (e.g., ABCD, CBDA)-and then were tested for the detection of changes in the target's position. Infants detected an ordinal change only when it disrupted the statistical co-occurrence of elements but not when statistical information was controlled. It is concluded that 4-month-olds learn the order of sequence elements by tracking their statistical associations but not their invariant ordinal position.

The psychosocial impacts of a cancer diagnosis include reduced quality of life, poorer inter-personal relationships, hopelessness and mental illness. Worse outcomes, including mortality rates have been found for single men with cancer compared with women and partnered men. The aim of this systematic review was to examine the effectiveness of post-treatment psychosocial and behaviour change interventions for adult men with cancer, in order to inform the development of an intervention. A focus on single men was intended. Ten databases were searched via Ovid and Web of Science. Papers were systematically extracted by title, abstract and full paper according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Full papers were assessed by two authors. participants at any stage of a cancer diagnosis, > or =50% male and aged 18+; psychosocial and/or behavioural post-treatment interventions, using any format; a one-three level of evidence. Couple/carer/family interventions were excluded. From 9948 studies initially identified, 11 were finally included in the review. They implemented cognitive behaviour therapy, hypnosis or psychoeducational interventions. All studies had some positive results, however, lack of reporting of intervention content and methodological issues limit the findings. No studies intervened with single men, and none provided comparative outcomes for marital status. Effectiveness of interventions was difficult to assess as, while all had benefits, their generalisability was limited due to methodological and reporting limitations. Improved reporting procedures are required to allow for replication.

Previous research in depressed participants has supported the differentiation of self-focus into distinct modes of self-attention with distinct functional effects. In particular, Rimes and Watkins (2005) investigated the effects of self-focused rumination on overgeneral thinking and found that analytical, evaluative self-focus increased global negative self-judgments, whereas self-focus low in analytical thinking decreased such judgments in depressed participants. Given that self-focused attention and rumination have been implicated in the maintenance of social anxiety, the present study investigated the effects of these two distinct forms of self-focused attention on global negative self-judgments in an analogue sample for social anxiety (high and low fear of negative evaluation, FNE). Individuals high and low in FNE (n=41 per group) were randomly allocated to analytic (abstract, evaluative) or experiential (concrete, process-focused) self-focused manipulations. As predicted, in high FNE individuals, the experiential self-focus condition decreased ratings of the self as worthless and incompetent pre- to post-manipulation, whereas the analytical self-focus condition maintained such negative self-judgments. Analytical and experiential self-focus did not differ in their effects on mood. The results suggest that an experiential mode of self-focused rumination may be adaptive in social anxiety.

Two experiments explored the ability of 18-month-old infants to form an abstract categorical representation of tight-fit spatial relations in a visual habituation task. In Experiment 1, infants formed an abstract spatial category when hearing a familiar word (tight) during habituation but not when viewing the events in silence or when hearing a novel word. In Experiment 2, infants were given experience viewing and producing tight-fit relations while an experimenter labeled them with a novel word. Following this experience, infants formed the tight-fit spatial category in the visual habituation task, particularly when hearing the novel word again during habituation. Results suggest that even brief experience with a label and tight-fit relations can aid infants in forming an abstract categorical representation of tight-fit relations.

Laboratory procedures used to study the cognitive functions of primates traditionally have involved removal of the subjects from their living quarters to be tested singly in a remote experimental room. This article presents an alternative research strategy favoring testing primates while they are maintained in their social group. The automatic learning device for monkeys (ALDM) is a computerized test system controlled by an automatic radio frequency identification of subjects. It is provided ad lib inside the social group of monkeys, for voluntary self-testing on a 24-h schedule. Nine baboons were tested with ALDM during a 7-month period. Experiments were performed to assess learning in motor control and abstract reasoning tasks. The results revealed high trial frequencies and excellent learning performance, even in tasks involving the highest cognitive complexities. A different study using ALDM with a group of 3 rhesus monkeys revealed social influences on learning. Beyond its interest for cognitive psychologists, ALDM is of interest for pharmacologists and cognitive neuroscientists working with nonhuman primates. ALDM also can serve as an enrichment tool for captive animals and may be used to study a variety of species other than primates.

Considering our experiences in everyday life, the result of research based on sample assumed to be derived from a "population" cannot afford individual predictions. That is because the variabilities within individuals which play an important role in actual psychological processes are erased from the data in samples-based studies. In this article, we begin the discussion with how the intra-individual variance contributes to individual prediction. As case study works on the basis of variability within each individual, it explores the intrinsic mechanism of development and emphasize the connection between person and environment. The question of how to generalize from case studies requires that the researcher to selectively consider some of the variance and construction of a hypothetical model that shows how different features of oppositions (Yin and Yang) are integrated into an abstract whole that is applicable to all individual cases.

Abstract Survival among perinatally infected children and youth with HIV has been greatly extended since the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapies. Yet, adherence to HIV medication regimens is suboptimal and decreases as children reach adolescence. This paper reports on a qualitative study examining psychosocial factors associated with adherence among perinatally infected youth ages 10-16 years. The study was based on in-depth interviews with a sample of 30 caregivers participating in a comprehensive health care program in New York City serving families with HIV. A subsample comprising 14 caregivers of children ages 10 and above is the focus of this paper. The analysis identified a number of themes associated with the psychosocial context of managing adherence among older children. Maintaining adherence was an ongoing challenge and strategies evolved as children matured. Regimen fatigue and resistance to taking the medications were major challenges to maintaining adherence among the oldest children. In other cases, caregivers developed a kind of partnership with their child for administering the medications. Disclosure to the child of his or her HIV status was used as a strategy to promote adherence but seemed to be effective only under certain circumstances. Social support appeared to have an indirect influence on adherence, primarily by providing caregivers with temporary help when needed. Health care professionals were an important source of disclosure and adherence support for parents. The study illustrates the interplay of maturational issues with other contextual psychosocial factors as influences on adherence among older children and adolescents.

Seven studies provide evidence that representations of the self at a distant-future time point are more abstract and structured than are representations of the self at a near-future time point and that distant-future behaviors are more strongly related to general self-conceptions. Distant-future self-representations incorporate broader, more superordinate identities than do near-future self-representations (Study 1) and are characterized by less complexity (Study 2), more cross-situational consistency (Study 3), and a greater degree of schematicity (Study 4). Furthermore, people's behavioral predictions of their distant-future (vs. near-future) behavior are more strongly related to their general self-characteristics (Study 5), distant-future behaviors are seen as more self-expressive (Study 6), and distant-future behaviors that do not match up with acknowledged self-characteristics are more strongly rejected as reflections of the self (Study 7). Implications for understanding both the nature of the self-concept and the way in which distance may influence a range of self-processes are discussed.

Current restrictions on work hours have presented residents with a dilemma: how to derive the same or improved surgical experience and expertise but with less time to do so? The answer clearly must include an increase in efficiency, defined here simply as doing more with less time. Ancient Greek distinguished 2 words for time: chronos, chronological, linear, quantitative time as measured by clocks and calendars; and kairos: qualitative time, time in relation to human activity, a moment of indeterminate duration in which something happens. Our goal as residents should be to gain more kairos given limited chronos. Here we review various tools, both concrete and abstract, useful to maximize efficiency and effectiveness in surgical education. We suggest that residents equipped with adequate tools should be able to benefit from more kairos.

Development in any domain is often characterized by increasingly abstract representations. Recent evidence in the domain of shape recognition provides one example; between 18 and 24 months children appear to build increasingly abstract representations of object shape [Smith, L. B. (2003). Learning to recognize objects. Psychological Science, 14, 244-250]. Abstraction is in part simplification because it requires the removal of irrelevant information. At the same time, part of generalization is ignoring irrelevant differences. The resulting prediction is this: simplification may enable generalization. Four experiments asked whether simple training instances could shortcut the process of abstraction and directly promote appropriate generalization. Toddlers were taught novel object categories with either simple or complex training exemplars. We found that children who learned with simple objects were able to generalize according to shape similarity, typically relevant for early object categories, better than those who learned with complex objects. Abstraction is the product of learning; using simplified - already abstracted instances - can short-cut that learning, leading to robust generalization.

This study tested the hypothesis that values, abstract goals serving as guiding life principles, become relatively important predictors of adolescents' self-reported violent behavior in school environments in which violence is relatively common. The study employed a students-nested-in-schools design. Arab and Jewish adolescents (N = 907, M age = 16.8), attending 33 Israeli schools, reported their values and their own violent behavior. Power values correlated positively, and universalism and conformity correlated negatively with self-reported violent behavior, accounting for 12% of the variance in violent behavior, whereas school membership accounted for 6% of the variance. In schools in which violence was more common, power values' relationship with adolescents' self-reported violence was especially positive, and the relationship of universalism with self-reported violence was especially negative.

Autobiographical essays by five community psychologists suggest that members of this profession often grew up with a strong sense of community and an interest in human interactions, rather than more abstract intellectual ideas. Their life stories reflect the idealism of the 1960s and 1970s that motivated the development of the field. Although these authors have sometimes struggled in the more conservative atmosphere of the past three decades, they retain a characteristic American sense of optimism about the meaning of their lives.

The emergence of the Cognitive Sciences, in the middle of the 20th Century, was initially based on an abstract model of the mind: the computer metaphor. The human mind was understood in analogy to the digital computer, as a rule-based, symbol processor. As a consequence, the human being was envisioned as logically-rationally guided, radically disembodied and isolated from culture. Over the last few decades, several disciplines, such as Biology, Mathematics, Philosophy, Psychology and Neuroscience, have begun to address the study of intentionality, intersubjectivity and natural cognition. Searching for a better understanding of these complex issues, a number of approaches have been developed with the promise of capturing the specific qualities of human cognition, radically omitted from a computationalist view of mind. Nevertheless, since these research programs are rather recent, concrete methodological designs and empirical approaches in the form of experimentally testable hypotheses are still scarce. This special issue brings together several perspectives in order to propose alternative research approaches in the topics of Intentionality, Intersubjectivity and Ecology of Mind. We believe it is necessary to discuss and advance towards explicit empirical frames in the form of actual experiments, specific predictions and formal models. The essays presented here constitute an attempt to move in this direction, with the specific aim of reconsidering the study of some forgotten properties of brain and mind.

There is a longstanding tradition in psychological research for norming lists of words that are used in experimental studies. The present study extends this practice to graphic imagery by obtaining norming data on 24 simple abstract graphic shapes composed of three straight-line segments. The attributes obtained in the norming procedure were the shapes' familiarity, describability, associability, availability, and potential for word association. Results from rating data indicate significantly different, yet reliable, responses by participants to the various shape configurations. Multidimensional scaling analysis of shape ratings identified two underlying dimensions of perceived differences: the continuity of a shape's linear direction and the consistency or regularity of its interior angles. By contrast, performance in generating word associations for figures appeared to be linguistically driven, with initial responses related to the similarity of shapes to letters of the alphabet. The norms and the computer program used to collect them can be downloaded from www.psychonomic.org/archive.

The Figure Independence Scale (FIS) assesses people's preference for abstract figures that represent uniqueness. As psychological manifestations of cultural values cohere among each other within a cultural system, the authors argue that preference for uniqueness, as a psychological manifestation of the value for independence, can be used as an indirect measure of this value. Four studies examine the convergent, discriminant, and predictive validity of the FIS. The results indicate that liking for abstract, unique figures coheres with other specific manifestations of the value for independence (i.e., responses to explicit independence scale, need for personal control, liking for independence themes in advertisements, and use of social coping) and thus can be used as a measure of individuals' more global endorsement of this individualistic value.

Adolescent development is accompanied by the emergence of a population-wide increase in vulnerability to depression that is maintained through adulthood. We provide a model for understanding how this vulnerability to depression arises, and why depression is so often precipitated by social rejection or loss of status during this phase. There is substantial remodeling and maturation of the dopaminergic reward system and the prefrontal cortex during adolescence, that coincides with the adolescent entering the complex world of adult peer and romantic relationships, where the rewards that can be obtained (feelings such as belonging, romantic love, status and agency) are abstract and temporally distant from the proximal context. Development of the prefrontal cortex makes it possible to pursue such complex and distal rewards, which are, however, tenuous and more readily frustrated than more immediate rewards. We hypothesize that when these distant rewards are frustrated they suppress the reward system, and that when such suppression is extensive and occurs for long enough, the clinical picture that results is one of depression.

Nursing theory challenges students to think abstractly and is often a difficult introduction to graduate study. Traditionally, concept analysis is useful in facilitating this abstract thinking. Concept maps are a way to visualize an individual's knowledge about a specific topic. Serial concept maps express the sequential evolution of a student's perceptions of a selected concept. Maps reveal individual differences in learning and perceptions, as well as progress in understanding the concept. Relationships are assessed and suggestions are made during serial mapping, which actively engages the students and faculty in dialogue that leads to increased understanding of the link between nursing theory and practice. Serial concept mapping lends itself well to both online and traditional classroom environments.

Awareness of individual phonemes in words is a late-acquired level of phonological awareness that usually develops in the early school years. It is generally agreed to have a close relationship with early literacy development, but its role in speech change is less well understood. Speech and language therapy for children with speech disorder involves tasks that appear, either implicitly or explicitly, to require a phonemic level of awareness. However, children typically attend for intervention at a pre-school, pre-literate stage, i.e. before they would be expected to have developed the relevant phoneme segmentation and manipulation skills. To investigate whether it is possible to teach phoneme awareness skills to pre-literate children with speech disorder. In a randomized controlled trial design 42 children with speech disorder, aged 4;0-4;6, were allocated to either a phonological awareness or a language stimulation programme. Children were assessed on four measures of phoneme awareness (alliteration awareness, phoneme isolation, word segmentation and phoneme addition/deletion) immediately before and after the programme and categorized as 'improved' or 'not improved' according to predetermined criteria. Fisher's Exact test was used to compare outcome in the two groups. Significantly more children improved in the phonological awareness group than in the language stimulation group for three out of the four measures (all except alliteration awareness). However, for the two most advanced tasks (segmentation and addition/deletion) only a small minority of children showed improvement. A marked improvement in Phoneme Isolation was made by the majority of children in the phonological awareness group. It is possible to teach some advanced phoneme awareness skills to some pre-literate children. Phoneme Isolation was the most easily learned and is a skill that appears very relevant to speech and language therapy. However, phoneme addition, deletion and word segmentation showed relatively limited improvement and only in a small number of cognitively able and older children. Whereas isolation of word initial consonants appears to be a skill that can be triggered at 4;0-4;6 by relevant activities, most children in the study were not cognitively ready for more advanced, abstract phoneme manipulation tasks. This raises questions about how speech and language therapists should tackle many common errors and the age at which we should aim to develop or draw on phoneme awareness to stimulate speech change.

Alcohol abusers seem to be prone to both suicide attempts and completions. The relationship between alcohol abuse and suicide in adolescence is complex. To examine the role of alcohol abuse and dependence in adolescent suicide in psychological autopsy studies. A search in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) PubMed database using "adolescents" and "all child: 0-18 years" as the search terms for age and "psychological autopsy" as the search term for title or abstract. Forty articles met the selection criteria and each one is described. There was a high prevalence of alcohol abuse detected in the studies (range 21.42% to 43.47% in samples aged under 20 years). Alcohol misuse was present in suicides in the form of chronic abuse, acute abuse and dependence. Alcohol abuse and dependence is highly prevalent among adolescent suicides. In many studies, alcohol consumption is analyzed in combination with drug abuse. Further studies are necessary to clarify the prevalence of chronic and acute alcohol abuse in order to identify specific high-risk population groups and design antisuicidal interventions for them. Both acute and chronic alcohol use should be evaluated when assessing suicide risk in adolescents.

This investigation explored infants' ability to retrieve a memory for a simple 3D shape from a novel view following a 24-hr delay. Tests of memory for shape in infancy have typically used extremely short delay intervals between familiarization and test in examining the ability to equate between substantially different views of a 3D object. The current study used longer delays to assess the content of a long-term memory representation. Infants 3-4 months of age learned to kick to move a mobile displaying a simple 3D shape (brick or cylinder). Results of three experiments show that infants can recognize 3D shapes in a novel viewpoint across a 24-hr delay, provided that experience with a sufficiently wide range of views is available during training. The results suggest a capacity for the perception of 3D shape that enables access, across long delays, to a memory representation of sufficient detail that discrimination between two simple shapes (i.e., a cylinder and a brick) is possible. The results suggest that this representation is of a sufficiently abstract nature that perception of the 3D form of the object, independent of the changes in specific features accompanying changes in viewpoint, is also possible. This finding suggests that infants, like adults, possess a functional memory system for the distal shape of simple 3D objects, and can transfer training to a novel view using long-term memory, but that this ability is not as strong as in the mature system. These results have implications for the development of shape perception and for theories of object recognition in general.

According to the suppositional theory of conditionals, people assess their belief in a conditional statement of the form "if p then q" by conducting a mental simulation on the supposition of p in which they assess their degree of belief in q. This leads to them to the judge the probability of a conditional statement to be equal to the conditional probability, P(q|p). Evidence for this conditional probability hypothesis has been adduced in earlier studies for abstract, causal, and counterfactual conditionals. For the realistic conditionals, it is natural to assume that people perform such mental simulations by building causal mental models from prior causes to later effects. However, in the present study we show that the conditional probability hypothesis extends to diagnostic conditionals, which relate effects to causes. This new finding presents a major challenge for theoretical accounts of the mental processing of conditional statements.

Adults appreciate that an abstract visual representation can be understood through inferring the artist's intention. Many investigators have argued that this capacity is a late-emerging developmental accomplishment, a claim supported by findings that preschool children ignore explicit statements about intent when naming pictures. Using a simplified method, we explored picture naming in 2-year-olds. Experiment 1 found that when an adult artist drew an object, children later mapped a novel name for the drawing to the object that the adult had been looking at. Experiment 2 suggests that this response was not merely because there was more attention given to that object. These findings are consistent with the view that children are naturally disposed to reason about artifacts, including artwork, in terms of inferred intention.

I believe the paper by Kirsch, Mazzoni and Montgomery (this issue) should surprise about 95% of ASCH members (maybe only 93% of SCEH members) because the three facts espoused in their paper speciously seem to be 100% true. To paraphrase from their abstract: 1) nothing that can be produced by hypnotic induction plus suggestion cannot also be produced by suggestion alone; 2) administration of a hypnotic induction does not produce a meaningful increase in response to suggestion relative to suggestion alone; and 3) responsivity to suggestions are highly correlated to responsivity on the same measure when preceded by a hypnotic induction ceremony. In order to persuade that these propositions are true, several objections to them must be addressed. However, just because one's facts are true does not mean that one's interpretation of the facts and their interrelationships are also true. The ramifications of the above facts and their interrelationships for the future of professional hypnosis (experimental, clinical and forensic) are identified and discussed.

Historians of science have only just begun to sample the wealth of different approaches to the study of animal behavior undertaken in the twentieth century. To date, more attention has been given to Lorenzian ethology and American behaviorism than to other work and traditions, but different approaches are equally worthy of the historian's attention, reflecting not only the broader range of questions that could be asked about animal behavior and the "animal mind" but also the different contexts in which these questions were important. One such approach is that represented by the work of the French zoologist Louis Boutan (1859-1934). This paper explores the intellectual and cultural history of Boutan's work on animal language and the animal mind, and contextualizes the place of animal behavior studies within late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century French biology. I explore the ways in which Boutan addressed the philosophical issue of whether language was necessary for abstract thought and show how he shifted from the idea that animals were endowed with a purely affective language to the notion that of they were capable of "rudimentary" reasoning. I argue that the scientific and broader socio-cultural contexts in which Boutan operated played a role in this transition. Then I show how Boutan's linguistic and psychological experiments with a gibbon and children provide insights into his conception of "naturalness." Although Boutan reared his gibbon at home and studied it in the controlled environment of his laboratory, he continued to identify its behavior as "natural." I specifically demonstrate the importance of the milieu of the French Third Republic in shaping Boutan's understanding not only of animal intelligence and child education, but also his definition of nature. Finally, I argue that Boutan's studies on the primate mind provide us with a lens through which we can examine the co-invention of animal and child psychology in early-twentieth-century France.

Over time, various methods have been used to stimulate critical thinking in undergraduate nursing students, and although many have been successful in helping students integrate the essential knowledge, experiences, and clinical reasoning that support practice, it is also useful to explore new methods. Faculty at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, School of Nursing and Dental Hygiene have taken an innovative approach of using logic models to further enhance critical thinking. This article presents an application of varying experiences and methods of using logic models to support the development of critical thinking and reasoning skills in nursing students. The processes in which logic models are used in the curriculum are described. The models are used to connect concepts from concrete to abstract levels in diverse and often nonlinear diagrams, guided discourse, and written assignments. The specific instructional methods used include concept mapping, concept papers, conceptual linking, and substruction.

The article reflects on the notion of the museum experience from the perspective of a visitor to a science and technology museum. Unlike studies that postulate a generic, abstract 'model visitor', the goal was to discuss the perspectives of the visitor as a psychological being, and to this end the research relied on the notion of interactivity. Using two classic psychology studies analyzing the behavior of children and adolescents, the current study first focused on the notion of experimentation, characterized as an interaction between subject and object. It then explored interactions between subjects and contexts, approaching from the notion of mediated action. My conclusion is that a museum experience should, on the one hand, take into account the visitor's ability to act, ask, and experiment and, on the other, the specific museum contexts that invite and propose but may also limit these very chances to act, question, and experiment.

Elevated power increases the psychological distance one feels from others, and this distance, according to construal level theory, should lead to more abstract information processing. Thus, high power should be associated with more abstract thinking-focusing on primary aspects of stimuli and detecting patterns and structure to extract the gist, as well as categorizing stimuli at a higher level-relative to low power. In 6 experiments involving both conceptual and perceptual tasks, priming high power led to more abstract processing than did priming low power, even when this led to worse performance. Experiment 7 revealed that in line with past neuropsychological research on abstract thinking, priming high power also led to greater relative right-hemispheric activation.

This article aims to redress the confusion surrounding the meaning of research terms. While most textbooks outline the meanings of different research terms in a way that is very abstract for many readers, this article has taken the opposite approach. It outlines a fictitious scenario and uses it to explain some of the more common research terms from the naturalistic paradigm - research data collected within the natural setting such as an outpatients clinic or health centre, as opposed to a controlled laboratory setting. This type of research is often referred to as qualitative research.

As abstract reasoning increases in complexity, adolescents may face dissonance between new thoughts and prior beliefs. Students in the health professions may be forced to resolve these dissonances in order to execute their professional responsibilities. In developing an undergraduate interdisciplinary course on adolescent health, the authors anticipated challenges in teaching adolescents about adolescence. Over the course of the semester, the anticipated challenges became reality. The author discusses pertinent developmental theories and their application in facilitating late adolescent identity formation and professional role development.

Abstract Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a complex disorder, where both genetic and environmental influences make a substantial contribution to the risk for the disorder. One of the challenges facing clinicians is to simplify for parents the multifaceted reasons why their child may have developed ADHD, explain the associated symptoms, and encourage parents to participate in intervention. Increasing parents understanding about ADHD should make them better informed about the disorder, more likely to consent to intervention, and increase adherence to both psychosocial and pharmacological treatment. The aim of this review is to provide clinicians with a brief synopsis of our current understanding about the aetiology of ADHD, co-morbidity and associated problems, developmental course and intervention options.

Educated humans use language to express abstract number, applying the same number words to seven apples, whistles, or sins. Is language or education the source of numerical abstraction? Claims to the contrary must present evidence for numerical knowledge that applies to disparate entities, in people who have received no formal mathematics instruction and cannot express such knowledge in words. Here we show that preschool children can compare and add large sets of elements without counting, both within a single visual-spatial modality (arrays of dots) and across two modalities and formats (dot arrays and tone sequences). In two experiments, children viewed animations and either compared one visible array of dots to a second array or added two successive dot arrays and compared the sum to a third array. In further experiments, a dot array was replaced by a sequence of sounds, so that participants had to integrate quantity information presented aurally and visually. Children performed all tasks successfully, without resorting to guessing strategies or responding to continuous variables. Their accuracy varied with the ratio of the two quantities: a signature of large, approximate number representations in adult humans and animals. Addition was as accurate as comparison, even though children showed no relevant knowledge when presented with symbolic versions of the addition tasks. Abstract knowledge of number and addition therefore precedes, and may guide, language-based instruction in mathematics.

Recent studies in cognitive linguistics have demonstrated that objects are conceptualised in terms of the actions they afford, i.e., in terms of their spatial-functional meaning. Since our interactions are constrained by the structure of our body, these studies view conceptualisation as essentially embodied. In this paper we argue that an object's abstract/figurative meaning is also embodied in that it is grounded in patterns of recurrent interactions with our environment, referred to as image schemas. On the basis of the spatial, relational structure of three such image schemas, two everyday products, a jug and an alarm clock, were systematically varied on form dimensions. Experiment 1 showed that participants with a background in design relate abstract characteristics to the form changes in the way predicted. To rule out the possibility that the relations uncovered are due to learned associations, a replication of the experiment was conducted with nai ve participants (experiment 2), leading to highly similar results. In experiment 3, we tested the cross-cultural consistency of our findings by performing a second replication with Brazilian participants. The results of this experiment were only partly in line with our predictions, suggesting that cultural differences in interacting with the environment to some degree affect our understanding of the abstract meaning of objects.

Are abstract representations of number - representations that are independent of the particular type of entities that are enumerated - a product of human language or culture, or do they trace back to human infancy? To address this question, four experiments investigated whether human infants discriminate between sequences of actions (jumps of a puppet) on the basis of numerosity. At 6 months, infants successfully discriminated four- versus eight-jump sequences, when the continuous variables of sequence duration, jump duration, jump rate, jump interval and duration, and extent of motion were controlled, and rhythm was eliminated. In contrast, infants failed to discriminate two- versus four-jump sequences, suggesting that infants fail to form cardinal number representations of small numbers of actions. Infants also failed to discriminate between sequences of four versus six jumps at 6 months, and succeeded at 9 months, suggesting that infants' number representations are imprecise and increase in precision with age. All of these findings agree with those of studies using visual-spatial arrays and auditory sequences, providing evidence that a single, abstract system of number representation is present and functional in infancy.

"Psychology," like many abstract terms, is difficult to define precisely. Henriques' (this issue) argument that psychology, though unified and coherent, actually spans two realms-psychological formalism ("the science of mind," this issue) and human psychology ("the science of human behavior at the individual level," this issue)-seems likely to improve the clarity of the concept. The strongest contribution of his analysis may be its placing "psychology" in the larger conceptual framework of the Tree of Knowledge taxonomy.

Abstract This study examined the global and current self-esteem levels of adolescents in a community sample of 550 secondary school students in Canada. A cross-sectional design and the survey method were used. Respondents' individual (age and gender) and environmental (cultural background, acculturating group, family circumstances, and perception of support) attributes were considered. Influences that promoted or challenged their current self-esteem were examined. Eighteen percent of respondents and 43.4% of respondents' parents were immigrants. When the Rosenberg Self-Esteem scale was used, 27.6% of respondents had the highest global self-esteem level; when the Current Self-Esteem scale was used, 12.7% had the highest current self-esteem level. A significant gender difference was found, with male adolescents having higher self-esteem. The results indicate that, although self-esteem promotion can benefit from lifestyle-oriented activities, its growth takes place in the larger context of adolescents' relationships, school-related experiences, achievements, and attitudes toward themselves. The study findings can contribute to mental health promotion strategies in multicultural and immigrant-receiving community settings.

This special series of articles on the Consensus Conference and Combined-Integrated (C-I) model of doctoral training in professional psychology consists of 13 articles in two successive volumes of the Journal of Clinical Psychology. Six articles are presented in Part 1 (Vol. 60, Issue 9), which collectively describe the "nature and scope" of the C-I model (e.g., historic and definitional issues; the potential advantages of this model; implications for the profession). In Part 2 of this special series (Vol. 60, Issue 10), articles 7 through 12 address the broader implications and potential applications of the C-I model within a range of professional and societal contexts (e.g., for interprofessional collaboration; the health care field; development of a global curriculum; the unified psychology movement; issues of assessment and professional identity; and higher education); article 13 provides a summary of the series as well as a discussion of future directions. As an overview, this paper provides the abstract for each of the articles in Part 1, and describes the various topics of the articles in Part 2. Taken together, the articles in this special series are designed to provide a coherent account of how and why the C-I model is timely and relevant, and therefore warrants serious consideration by the larger education and training community in professional psychology.

Abstraction and generalization constitute important aims of science (Kruglanski, 2001, in press), yet broad theorizing is rather rare in social and personality psychology. Some reasons for this state of affairs are examined, including the considerable staying power of insufficiently abstract theories and the broad resistance that abstract theories can incite. The trials and tribulations of abstract theorizing are considered, drawing on my own work on lay epistemics. Its problems and pitfalls notwithstanding, abstract theorizing is what our field needs more of if progress is to take place and social and personality psychology is to obtain the voice it merits in the general cultural dialogue about societal issues. To encourage such theorizing, 3 principles are offered, including the commonality focus (the horizontal voyage), the data focus (the vertical voyage), and the restructuration focus (the upstream voyage) principles.

Despite awareness of the need to design developmentally appropriate sexual risk reduction interventions for adolescents, limited information exists to identify the aspects of intervention design or content that make an intervention developmentally appropriate. (a) To clarify the rationale for designing developmentally appropriate interventions, (b) to review randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of adolescent sexual risk reduction interventions, (c) to identify developmentally appropriate strategies, (d) to examine the relationship between developmental appropriateness and sexual risk outcomes, and (e) to provide recommendations for research. The authors examined studies (n = 24) published before 2003 that evaluated a risk reduction intervention, sampled adolescents, used an RCT study design, and evaluated sexual behavior outcomes. Content analysis indicated that the interventions tested were often tailored to the cognitive level of adolescents, as indicated by the use of exercises on decision making, goal setting and planning, and concrete explanation of abstract concepts. Interventions also addressed the social influences of risky sex such as peer norms and provided communication skills training. Overall, the interventions tested in RCTs were more effective in delaying the onset of sexual activity than in promoting abstinence among sexually active youth. Interventions with booster sessions were effective in reducing sexual risk behavior. The use of process measures, linked with developmental constructs, was rare. However, improvements in sexual communication skills and perceived norms for safer sex were associated with reductions in sexual risk outcomes. Developmental transitions during adolescence influence sexual behavior and should be considered when developing and evaluating risk reduction interventions for youth. Future research should assess process measures of key developmental constructs as well as risk behavior and biological outcomes.

In two different experiments a visual habituation/dishabituation procedure was used to test groups of 3-10-month-old infants for their ability to discriminate the role reversal of two abstract figures (discs of different colors) chasing each other on a computer screen. Results of the first experiment point to a reliable age effect. Only 8-10-month-old infants tended to dishabituate to a role reversal between chaser and chasee. A second experiment shows that in dishabituating to the role reversal, 8-10-month-olds do base this discrimination on relational information between the two discs and not merely on the contrast between their respective vitality or discrete dynamic. By the age of 8-10 months, infants demonstrate sensitivity to information specifying what one disc does to the other, at a distance. These findings point to important changes in perceptual-cognitive development and are discussed in the context of a well described key transition in social-cognitive development occurring at around 9 months of age.

A carefully chosen story can help the leader of an organization translate an abstract concept into a meaningful mandate for employees. The key is to know which narrative strategies are right for what circumstances. Knowledge management expert Stephen Denning explains that, for optimal effect, form should follow function. Challenging one professional storyteller's view that more is better, Denning points out that it's not always desirable (or practical) to launch into an epic that's jam-packed with complex characters, cleverly placed plot points, an intricate rising action, and a neatly resolved denouement. True, if listeners have time and interest, a narrative-savvy leader can use a vividly rendered tale to promote communication between management and staff, for instance, or even to foster collaboration--especially when the story is emotionally moving. However, if the aim is to motivate people to act when they might not be inclined to do so, it's best to take an approach that's light on detail. Otherwise, the particulars can bog listeners down and prevent them from focusing on the message. Drawing on his experiences at the World Bank and observations made elsewhere, the author provides several dos and don'ts for organizational storytellers, along with examples of narratives that get results. The sidebar "A Storytelling Catalog" presents seven distinct types of stories, the situations in which they should be told, and tips on how to tell them. Many of these aren't even stories in the "well-told" sense--they run the rhetorical gamut from one-liners to full-blown speeches--but they succeed because they're tailored to fit the situation. So even though it's common in business to favor the analytical over the anecdotal, leaders with the strength to push past some initial skepticism about the enterprise of storytelling will find that the creative effort pays off.

In recent years, an exciting thrust in the developmental research literature has been the focus on "executive" functions (EF). However, the emphasis has been on the more purely cognitive aspects of EF operative in abstract reasoning and problem solving-aspects associated mainly with dorsolateral frontal regions. Although the literature on adult neuropsychology has seen an emerging and growing interest in the study of processes more related to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), including emotion and personality, research on the development of EF has lagged behind. This special issue of Brain and Cognition is intended to redress this imbalance by bringing together researchers who are studying the nature and development of orbitofrontal function from a wide variety of perspectives.

My early fascination with geometry and physics and, later, with perception and imagination inspired a hope that fundamental phenomena of psychology, like those of physics, might approximate universal laws. Ensuing research led me to the following candidates, formulated in terms of distances along shortest paths in abstract representational spaces: Generalization probability decreases exponentially and discrimination time reciprocally with distance. Time to determine the identity of shapes and, provisionally, relation between musical tones or keys increases linearly with distance. Invariance of the laws is achieved by constructing the representational spaces from psychological rather than physical data (using multidimensional scaling) and from considerations of geometry, group theory, and symmetry. Universality of the laws is suggested by their behavioral approximation in cognitively advanced species and by theoretical considerations of optimality. Just possibly, not only physics but also psychology can aspire to laws that ultimately reflect mathematical constraints, such as those of group theory and symmetry, and, so, are both universal and nonarbitrary.

Debates continue about the role of nursing theory in nursing and yet it is generally accepted that all knowledge is theoretical and all learning requires abstract theory. This column looks at the interplay between abstract theoretical concepts and particulars from nursing practice and research that are informed by theory and that at the same time expand understanding of the abstract notion. Examples from practice and research highlight the critical role of nursing theory.

Are spatial proximity (0.10-12.5 cm), temporal proximity (0-, 2-, and 5-s gaps), and/or perceived connectedness of stimulus and reward key to infants' ability to deduce an abstract nonmatching rule from reward feedback? In this investigation, 3 conditions of the delayed nonmatching to sample task were administered to infants 9, 12, and 15 months old, and 5 more conditions were administered just to 12-month-olds. Results showed that connectedness is key. In its presence, neither close spatial or temporal proximity was needed. In the absence of the perception that stimulus and reward were components of a single thing, even close spatial and temporal proximity were insufficient for infants in the 1st year to grasp the rule-based association between stimuli and rewards.

Six-month-old infants' ability to form an abstract category of containment was examined using a standard infant categorization task. Infants were habituated to 4 pairs of objects in a containment relation. Following habituation, infants were tested with a novel example of the familiar containment relation and an example of an unfamiliar relation. Results indicate that infants look reliably longer at the unfamiliar versus familiar relation, indicating that they can form a categorical representation of containment. A second experiment demonstrated that infants do not rely on object occlusion to discriminate containment from a support or a behind spatial relation. Together, the results indicate that by 6 months, infants can recognize a containment relation from different angles and across different pairs of objects.

Tricket (1996) described community psychology in terms of contexts of diversity within a diversity of contexts. As abstract representations of reality, various community psychological models provide further diverse contexts through which to view the diversity of community psychological reality. The Zululand Community Psychology Project is a South African initiative aimed at improving community life. This includes treating the violent sequelae of the unjust Apartheid system through improving relationships among communities divided in terms of historical, colonial, racial, ethnic, political, gender, and other boundaries as well as promoting health and social change. The aim of this article is to evaluate the applicability of various models of community psychology used in this project. The initial quantitative investigation in the Zululand Community Psychology Project involved five coresearchers, who evaluated five community psychology models--the mental health, social action, organizational, ecological, and phenomenological models--in terms of their differential applicability in three partnership centers, representing health, education, and business sectors of the local community. In all three contexts, the models were rank ordered by a representative of each center, an intern community psychologist, and his supervisor in terms of the models' respective applicability to the particular partnership center concerned. Results indicated significant agreement with regard to the differential applicability of the mental health, phenomenological, and organizational models in the health, education, and business centers respectively, with the social action model being most generally applicable across all centers. This led to a further qualitative individual and focus group investigation with eight university coresearchers into the experience of social transformation with special reference to social changes needed in the South African context. These social transformation experiences and perceived changes needed are explicated. Finally, there is discussion with regard to the evaluation of various models of community psychology in international perspective.

Normal children learn tens of thousands of words, and do so quickly and efficiently, often in highly impoverished environments. In How Children Learn the Meanings of Words, I argue that word learning is the product of certain cognitive and linguistic abilities that include the ability to acquire concepts, an appreciation of syntactic cues to meaning, and a rich understanding of the mental states of other people. These capacities are powerful, early emerging, and to some extent uniquely human, but they are not special to word learning. This proposal is an alternative to the view that word learning is the result of simple associative learning mechanisms, and it rejects as well the notion that children possess constraints, either innate or learned, that are specifically earmarked for word learning. This theory is extended to account for how children learn names for objects, substances, and abstract entities, pronouns and proper names, verbs, determiners, prepositions, and number words. Several related topics are also discussed, including naïve essentialism, children's understanding of representational art, the nature of numerical and spatial reasoning, and the role of words in the shaping of mental life.

This article provides an empirically supported reminder of the importance of accuracy in scientific communication. The authors identify common types of inaccuracies in research abstracts and offer suggestions to improve abstract-article agreement. Abstracts accompanying 13% of a random sample of 400 research articles published in 8 American Psychological Association journals during 1997 and 1998 contained data or claims inconsistent with or missing from the body of the article. Error rates ranged from 8% to 18%, although between-journal differences were not significant. Many errors (63%) were unlikely to cause substantive misinterpretations. Unfortunately, 37% of errors found could be seriously misleading with respect to the data or claims presented in the associated article. Although deficient abstracts may be less common in psychology journals than in major medical journals (R. M. Pitkin, M. A. Branagan, & L. F. Burmeister, 1999), there is still cause for concern and need for improvement.

There are surprisingly strong connections between the philosophy of mind and the philosophy of mathematics. One particular important example can be seen in the Regulae (1628) of Descartes. In "the noblest example of all," he used his new abstract understanding of numbers to demonstrate how the brain can be considered as a symbol machine and how the intellect's algebraic reasoning can be mirrored as operations on this machine. Even though his attempt failed, it is illuminating to explore it because Descartes launched 2 traditions--mechanistic philosophy of mind and abstract mathematics--that would diverge until A. Turing (1936) approached symbolic reasoning in a similar "symbol machine-existence proof" way. Descrates's and Turing's thought experiments, which mark the beginning of modern psychology and cognitive science, respectively, indicate how important the development of mathematics has been for the constitution of the science of mind.

ABSTRACT. The authors reanalyzed data from a simulated left-turn experiment (P. A. Hancock, J. K. Caird, S. Shekhar, & M. Vercruyssen, 1991) to test the adequacy of the nonlinear Gray-Tallman satisfaction balance model of choice behavior (L. N. Gray & I. Tallman, 1984) in predicting left turns. Participants (Hancock et al., 1991) were 40 experienced U.S. drivers who were exposed to simulated oncoming traffic; the size of the vehicle (motorcycle, compact vehicle, full-sized vehicle, delivery truck), its speed (10-70 mph, or 16-112 kmph), and the intervehicle time gap (3-9 s) varied. Hancock et al. (1991) measured (a) the likelihood of a left turn and (b) the occurrence of a collision. The probability of a left turn was greater for larger intervehicle time gaps and for oncoming smaller vehicles traveling at higher speeds. The Gray-Tallman (1984) model explained 69% of the variation in turning versus 57% for a linear regression model. In making decisions people tend to treat the values and costs affecting choices in a multiplicative, rather than linear, fashion. The Gray-Tallman model also has the potential for incorporating, both theoretically and mathematically, an unlimited range of potential values and costs that may influence left turn decisions.

Depression, impulsivity, and aggression during adolescence have been associated with both adoption and suicidal behavior. Studies of adopted adults suggest that impulsivity, even more than depression, may be an inherited factor that mediates suicidal behavior. However, the association between adoption and adolescent suicide attempts and the mechanisms that might explain it remain unknown. The objective of this study was to determine the following: 1) whether suicide attempts are more common among adolescents who live with adoptive parents rather than biological parents; 2) whether the association is mediated by impulsivity, and 3) whether family connectedness decreases the risk of suicide attempt regardless of adoptive or biological status. A secondary analysis of Wave I data from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health was conducted, which used a school-based, clustered sampling design to identify a nationally representative sample of 7th- to 12th-grade students, with oversampling of underrepresented groups. Of the 90 118 adolescents who completed the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health in-school survey, 17 125 completed the in-home interview and had parents of identified gender who completed separate in-home questionnaire. The subset of adolescents for this study was drawn from the in-home sampling according to the following criteria: 1) adolescent living with adoptive or biological mother at the time of the interview, 2) adolescent had never been separated from mother for more than 6 months, 3) mother was in first marriage at the time of the interview, and 4) the adoptive mother had never been married to the adolescent's biological father. Of the 6577 adolescents in the final study sample, 214 (3.3%) were living with adoptive mothers and 6363 (96.7%) were living with biological mothers. Variables. The primary outcome measured was adolescent report of suicide attempt(s) in the past year. Other variables included in the analyses were sociodemographics characteristics (gender, age, race/ethnicity, family income, parental education), general health (self-rated health, routine examination in the past year, need for medical care in the past year that was not obtained), mental health (depressive symptoms, self-image, trouble relaxing in the past year, bad temper, psychological or emotional counseling in the past year), risk behaviors (cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, sexual intercourse ever, delinquency, physical fighting in the past year, impulsive decision making), school-related characteristics (grade point average, school connectedness), and family interaction (family connectedness, parental presence, maternal satisfaction with parent-adolescent relationship). Data Analysis. Univariate analyses were used to compare adoptees versus nonadoptees, suicide attempters versus nonsuicide attempters, and adopted suicide attempters versus nonadopted suicide attempters on all variables. Variables that were associated with attempted suicide were entered into a forward stepwise logistic regression procedure, and variables that were associated with the log odds of attempt were retained in the model. The area under the model's receiver operating characteristic curve was calculated as a measure of its overall performance. After the association of adoption with attempted suicide was demonstrated, the potential mediating effect of impulsivity was explored by adding it to the model. The same procedure was followed for any variable that was associated with adoption in the full sample or the subsample of suicide attempters. To determine whether any variable in the model moderated the association between adoption and suicide attempt, the interaction term for that variable x adoption was forced into the model. Adoptees differed significantly from nonadoptees on 4 of 26 variables. They were more likely to have attempted suicide (7.6% vs 3.1%) and to have received psychological or emotional counseling in the past year (16.9% vs 8.2%), and their mothers reported higher parental education and family income. Attempters differed significantly from nonattempters on all variables except for age, race/ethnicity, parental education, family income, and routine examination in the past year. On logistic regression, 9 variables were independently associated with attempted suicide: depression (adjusted odds ratio [AOR]: 3.41), counseling (AOR: 2.83), female gender (AOR: 2.31), cigarette use (AOR: 2.31), delinquency (AOR: 2.17), adoption (AOR: 1.98), low self-image (AOR: 1.78), aggression (AOR: 1.48), and high family connectedness (AOR: 0.60). The receiver operating characteristic curve for the model had an area of 0.834, indicating performance significantly better than chance. The AOR for adoption did not change when parental education, family income, and impulsivity were forced into the model. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

When psychologists test a commonsense (CS) hypothesis and obtain no support, they tend to erroneously conclude that the CS belief is wrong. In many such cases it appears, after many years, that the CS hypothesis was valid after all. It is argued that this error of accepting the "theoretical" null hypothesis reflects confusion between the operationalized hypothesis and the theory or generalization that it is designed to test. That is, on the basis of reliable null data one can accept the operationalized null hypothesis (e.g., "A measure of attitude x is not correlated with a measure of behavior y"). In contrast, one cannot generalize from the findings and accept the abstract or theoretical null (e.g., "We know that attitudes do not predict behavior"). The practice of accepting the theoretical null hypothesis hampers research and reduces the trust of the public in psychological research.

The social and economic impact of AIDS add to those of a recent civil war in 1997. There were fratricidal confrontations before and after this period. Pointe-Noire, the second city of Congo and the economic Capital, was on the whole spared. We carried out a survey of 292 high-school students: 39% of girls and 61% of boys, from 14 old to 25 years old (average age of 19 years). They were from 5 general and technical schools, which are representative of the school recruitment of the city of Pointe-Noire. This study made in 1998 was the second part of a work achieved in France in 1997 with 1,859 high-school students: 70% of girls and 30% of boys, mean age 17.7 years, range 15-25 years. They came from 3 general, technical and professional schools of two departments of the region "Centre" ("Indre-et-Loire" and "Loir-et-Cher"). The material, corresponding to this study, is an anonymous self-questionnaire of 55 closed items presented in the form of assertions to which the student respond either yes or no. Items investigated: 1) pubertal maturation and subjective maturation; 2) different aspects of sexual experience in adolescence (components of sexual experience) [9] and 3) sexual behaviour (including sexual risk taking). All items have been formulated in the most accessible possible way for the youngsters. Previously, in 1996, we had made a pre-test with this material near sample of French people from 16 to 68 years old. The results of the study highlight that the Congolese youngsters present more risk than their French homologues. Although the pubertal status (the menarche and the spermarche) occurs slightly later, Congolese boys present a greater number of sexual partners and greater sexual precocity. Among 54% of Congolese pupils from the sample which had already had a sexual intercourse (68% of boys and 42% of girls) versus 52% of French pupils (58% of boys and 49% of girls), 88% of the Congolese boys have sexual intercourse at the age of 15, versus 72% of the girls at 16.5 versus 65% of the French boys in their 15.5 and 52% of the girls at 16. These differences are significant (p < 0.001) like all the following ones. Congolese students declare more sexual partners (4 during the last 12 months and 5 for all their life versus 3.2 and 4.4 for the French students); the boys more than the girls (6.5 sexual partners on the whole versus 3.7 for the girls in Congo and 5.7 versus 3.8 in France). Congolese girls generally have fewer sexual relations (over 12 months or during their entire life) than French high-school girls (respectively 5.9, 6.9 versus 8.7 and 9.3). We can see with French and Congolese students, a "traditional" dichotomy between boys and girls: that is to say girls tend to engage later in sexual relations and to favour the long and regular relations, while the boys have more short, and spaced sentimental relations. The relations of these last ones tend to evolve on a more preparatory mode, genital and intermittent, contrary to those girls who seem more sentimental and continuous. The use of the condom concerns 72% of the French pupils for the first sexual intercourse (74% of boys versus 72% of girls) - which is close to results of French reference surveys [1, 3]. On the other hand, they are only 39% to make use of it in Congo in this circumstance (36% of the boys and 34% of the girls). All Congolese young people present more STD (6% versus 4% for the French pupils) and more pregnancy (11% versus 3%). The other risky situations appear also more important in Congo: as the fact of having sexual intercourse after having drunk too much (6% of case where it arrives systematically versus 2% in France); to have sexual intercourse with a injecting drug user (4% versus 1%); paying or to have been paid (in a systematic way 7% versus 1%). The Congolese answers concerning the recourse to prostitution are more dissimilar and alarming concerning Congolese young people, especially if one takes into account all the situations where it occurred at least once (29% of the boys and 13% of the Congolese girls who declare to have had a sexual intercourse by paying (with money). Homosexual relations are more frequent in Congo (4 and 6% versus 2 and 3% for France). Homosexual experience concerned 13% of the Congolese pupils versus less than 5% of the French ones. The answers concerning a sexual partner who is "not sure" (20% in Congo versus 2% in France) can get clearer in the Congolese context with an elevated prevalence rate of infection by HIV. However, other cultural factors should not be neglected. The same applies for the answers relative to the sexual intercourse under duress (29% for Congo versus less than 7% in France). The answers relative to the fact of having a sexual intercourse with a much older partner (21% versus 13%) do not seem surprising for Congo. But it does not free risks. All these elements are not associated with a better estimate of the personal risk. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

Two experiments used Information Integration Theory to study how children judge expected value of complex gambles in which alternative outcomes have different prizes. Six-year-olds, 9-year-olds and adults (N = 73 in Study 1, N = 28 in Study 2) saw chance games that involved shaking a marble in a bicolored tube. One prize was won if the marble stopped on blue, another if it stopped on yellow. Children judged how happy a puppet playing the game would be, with the prizes and probability of the blue and yellow outcomes varied factorially. Three main results appeared in both studies: First, participants in all age groups used the normatively prescribed multiplication rule for integrating probability and value of each individual outcome--a striking finding because multiplicative reasoning does not usually appear before 8 years of age in other domains. Second, all age groups based judgment of overall expected value meaningfully on both alternative outcomes, but there were individual differences--many participants deviated from the normative addition rule, showing risk seeking and risk averse patterns of judgment similar to the risk attitudes often found with adults. Third, even the youngest children took probability to be an abstract rather than physical property of the game. Overall, in contrast to the traditional view, the present results demonstrate functional understanding of probability and expected value in children as young as 5 or 6. These results contribute to the growing evidence on children's intuitive reasoning competence. This intuition can, on the one hand, support surprisingly precocious performance in young children, but it may also contribute to the biases evident in adults' judgment and decision.

This article raises and tries to answer questions concerning what objectivity in psychosocial measurement is, why it is important, and how it can be achieved. Following in the tradition of the Socratic art of maiuetics, objectivity is characterized by the separation of meaning from the geometric, metaphoric, or numeric figure carrying it, allowing an ideal and abstract entity to take on a life of its own. Examples of objective entities start from anything teachable and learnable, but for the purposes of measurement, the meter, gram, volt, and liter are paradigmatic because of their generalizability across observers, instruments, laboratories, samples, applications, etc. Objectivity is important because it is only through it that distinct conceptual entities are meaningfully distinguished. Seen from another angle, objectivity is important because it defines the conditions of the possibility of shared meaning and community. Full objectivity in psychosocial measurement can be achieved only by attending to both its methodological and its social aspects. The methodological aspect has recently achieved some notice in psychosocial measurement, especially in the form of Rasch's probabilistic conjoint models. Objectivity's social aspect has only recently been noticed by historians of science, and has not yet been systematically incorporated in any psychosocial science. An approach to achieving full objectivity in psychosocial measurement is adapted from the ASTM Standard Practice for Conducting an Interlaboratory Study to Determine the Precision of a Test Method (ASTM Committee E-11 on Statistical Methods, 1992).

The contingency-competence-control (CCC) model links contingency and competence beliefs to perceived control and, in turn, to depression. However, a developmental perspective suggests that noncontingency may be too abstract a concept to be directly tied to depression before adolescence. We tested the CCC model and this developmental notion, using structural equation modeling, with 360 clinic-referred 8- to 17-year-olds. The CCC model fit the data well for the full sample accounting for 46% of the variance in depression. Separate analyses by age group placed perceived contingency in the best-fit model for adolescents (ages 12-17 years) but not for children (8-11 years). This suggests that abstract cause-effect concepts may have more direct affective impact after the cognitive changes of adolescence (e.g., formal operations) than before. Finally, the CCC model accounted for much more variance in depression than conduct problems, suggesting diagnostic specificity.

Kurt Goldstein is regarded as one of the major proponents of the holistic movement at the beginning of the 20th century. He rejected the strong localization hypothesis in the field of aphasiology and attempted to link language disturbances to an underlying general intellectual impairment. Goldstein's criticism was based on his subtle symptomatology, his organismic biology, and his philosophical reflections. In his concept of abstract attitude Goldstein searched for a general psychological function that might explain a variety of aphasic symptoms. Abstract attitude bridges the gap between cognitive and linguistic structures. According to Goldstein, it is the basis for words to have a meaning, to be employed in a categorical sense. Since amnesic aphasics are confined to a concrete attitude, their words have lost their representational function. Although Goldstein's concept of abstract attitude is no longer used in scientific discourse, it is analyzed for its heuristic value. It led Goldstein to questions about the relation between cognition and language and to fragments of a semantic theory.

Comparative optimism consists of projecting oneself into a situation that is advantageous in relation to others. This is observed in the estimation of future risks, as well as in the evaluation of prevention messages: people who consider themselves less exposed to risks but more receptive than others to prevention messages. Our experimental research, which included a sample of 523 people, examines the effect of prevention messages on comparative optimism regarding future risks such as automobile accidents, domestic accidents or infectious diseases. Three independent variables were tested: the framing of messages, the context of judgement, and the target of comparison. The framing of messages consisted of centering the arguments on losses resulting from the absence of prevention or on the benefits of prevention. The context allowed for the evaluation of the perception of risks with or without a prevention message or reading instructions. People should have indicated if they were more or less likely to be at risk compared to someone close to them (a friend) or to an abstract entity (someone of their generation). Our study shows that the preliminary attention to prevention messages diminishes comparative optimism relative to future risks when the target of comparison is abstract, and the instruction increases the personal implication; it increases the comparative optimism regarding future risks when the comparison is to someone familiar and the messages are framed negatively. The discussion relates to the applications of these results for the conception and evaluation of prevention messages.

The transition from childhood to adulthood represents a time of great physiologic and psychologic change. The adolescence period can be divided into early, middle, and late adolescence. The diagnosis of cancer and impending death during adolescence can add more stress and demands during this difficult period. The normal tasks of adolescence include separation from parents, development of abstract thinking, sexual awareness, and future orientation with goals for career and marriage. These tasks must be accomplished even in the face of severe illness. The physical changes brought about by cancer and its treatment may be the major concern for the adolescent patient. The prospect of death is met with denial and anger. Independence and therefore refusal of help is maintained until the younger adolescent can no longer care for himself. The older adolescent is more confident and may allow family closeness as death approaches. The uniqueness of the adolescent requires the knowledge and patience of health care providers. Hospice professionals who are trained to understand adolescents may be able to allow them to die with independence and dignity.

Four experiments used the head-turn preference procedure to assess whether infants could extract and remember information from auditory strings produced by a miniature artificial grammar. In all four experiments, infants generalized to new structure by discriminating new grammatical strings from ungrammatical ones after less than 2 min exposure to the grammar. Infants acquired specific information about the grammar as demonstrated by the ability to discriminate new grammatical strings from those with illegal endpoints (Experiment 1). Infants also discriminated new grammatical strings from those with string-internal pairwise violations (Experiments 2 and 3). Infants in Experiment 4 abstracted beyond specific word order as demonstrated by the ability to discriminate new strings produced by their training grammar from strings produced by another grammar despite a change in vocabulary between training and test. We discuss the implications of these findings for the study of language acquisition.

Constructivism is the Piagetian notion that learning leads the child to develop new types of representations. For example, on the Piagetian view, a child is born without knowing that objects persist in time even when they are occluded; through a process of learning, the child comes to know that objects persist in time. The trouble with this view has always been the lack of a concrete, computational account of how a learning mechanism could lead to such a change. Recently, however, in a book entitled Rethinking Innateness. Elman et al. (Elman, J.L., Bates, E., Johnson, M.H., Karmiloff-Smith, A., Parisi, D., Plunkett, K., 1996. Rethinking Innateness: A Connectionist Perspective on Development. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press) have claimed that connectionist models might provide an account of the development of new kinds of representations that would not depend on the existence of innate representations. I show that the models described in Rethinking Innateness depend on innately assumed representations and that they do not offer a genuine alternative to nativism. Moreover, I present simulation results which show that these models are incapable of deriving genuine abstract representations that are not presupposed. I then give a formal account of why the models fail to generalize in the ways that humans do. Thus, connectionism, at least in its current form, does not provide any support for constructivism. I conclude by sketching a possible alternative.

Psychosocial adjustment to illness is an important as the status of the physical disease itself; focusing on this necessitates some measurement of abstract, subjective feelings of "quality of life" (QOL). Assessments of QOL are particularly important for conditions such as urinary incontinence (UI) that have little or no impact on mortality. This presentation describes the reasons for, and methods of, measuring lower urinary tract symptoms and disease impact. Validated instruments available for such measurements are reviewed, as are published studies that address the impact of UI (and urge incontinence in particular) on QOL. Potential applications for these new disease measures are discussed. The bladder is an unreliable witness, and symptom assessment is diagnostically disappointing; cystometry is essential if a definitive diagnosis is required. However, objective tests take no account of the patient's perception of the problem. General health status questionnaires have been used to show that urge incontinence is associated with emotional problems, reduced social and recreational activity, and sexual dysfunction. Newly developed, condition-specific instruments have greater specificity and, hence, improved sensitivity for measuring incontinence and its impact. These instruments have the potential for monitoring disease progression and evaluating treatment outcome. In a proportion of people with bladder overactivity, the disorder has a profound impact on the QOL. Methods of measuring this impact have been developed that may allow identification of this group of individuals while also improving the assessment of treatment efficacy. However, this science is in its infancy and these dimensions await further exploration.

Partial results from a larger Finnish-Polish study on the relations between grandchildren, parents, and grandparents are presented here. The results are based on a content analysis of essays written by 731 Finnish and Polish adolescents between eleven and twenty-one. Older children used more abstract descriptions, girls mentioned more personality features and feelings than boys, and grandmothers, especially maternal grandmothers were described in the most positive terms. The central new finding was that there are highly significant cross-cultural differences in the descriptions of grandparents; the Poles describe them in more abstract terms even after controlling for age and gender. Polish adolescents make more mention of their feelings, their personality, and their skills as well as of emotional/intellectual input from them; they use more positive terms than do the Finns, but make less mention of activities and appearance. These differences between the two cultures are mediated by contact frequency, which through its working on the proximal level enables co-construction of the relationship and the transmission of interactional styles.

Experiences of qualia, subjective sensory-like aspects of stimuli, are central to imagistic representation. Following Raffman (1993), qualia are considered to reflect experiential knowledge distinct from descriptive, abstract, and propositional knowledge; following Jackendoff (1987), objective neural activity is distinguished from subjective experience. It is argued that descriptive physical knowledge does not provide an adequate accounting of qualia, and philosophical scenarios such as the Turing test and the Chinese Room are adapted to demonstrate inadequacies of accounts of cognition that ignore subjective experience. Arguments by Dennett and others that qualia do not exist or that qualia do not provide additional explanatory power are addressed, and it is suggested that consideration of qualia is necessary in order to explain (and not just predict) objective behavior. The hypotheses of functional equivalence, second-order isomorphism, and psychophysical complementarity between imagery and perception are discussed, and the ability of analog and schematic models of imagery to account for qualia is examined.

This study focused on the development of guidelines for a training program for nurse managers in a newly formed integrated delivery system. Subjects' learning styles as defined in Kolb's Experimental Learning Theory were identified and graphically plotted in the appropriate learning environment or domain. Necessary training methods derived from Fry's Learning Environment table were applied to scores. A logical method is presented linking previous nursing student learning style studies with a cognitive schema experiment conducted with nursing novices and experts. The hypothesis that a subtle transition of learning style does occur from the concrete-divergent to the abstract-convergent as the nurse manager gains in education and moves through the management experience was supported.

Social psychologists can benefit from exploring connectionist or parallel distributed processing models of mental representation and process also can contribute much to connectionist theory in return. Connectionist models involve many simple processing units that send activation signals over connections. At an abstract level, the models can be described as representing concepts (as distributed patterns of activation), operating like schemas to fill in typical values for input information, reconstructing memories based on accessible knowledge rather than retrieving static representations, using flexible and context-sensitive concepts, and computing by satisfying numerous constraints in parallel. This article reviews open questions regarding connectionist models and concludes that social psychological contributions to such topics as cognition-motivation interactions may be important for the development of integrative connectionist model.

Findings from many areas of psychology and neuroscience indicate that inhibitory mechanisms may contribute to relationships between numerous causal variables and an equally diverse set of outcome variables. Outcome variables that implicate inhibition include measures from physiology, perception, attention, action, learning and episodic memory, semantic memory, emotion, and psychopathology. Inhibition-related causal variables include childhood development and aging, hypoxia and other brain insults, and socialization. If confirmed by further research, a theoretical framework with inhibition as one of its core mediating constructs has several strengths, including unified explanations for diverse relationships, mechanistic models for phenomena, insight into the principles that underlie observed relationships, and mechanistic translations of existing abstract, theoretical constructs.

In the introduction to this report our committee, with its focus on adolescent development, expressed its concern that adolescent suicidal behavior represented a grave crisis in the adolescent, a crisis not only in the development of the adolescent but one that endangers the existence of the adolescent. The possibility of a fatal outcome is abhorrent to us as physicians and psychiatrists, as it is to all those entrusted with the care and development of our fellow human beings. Consequently, we explored the ways in which developmental and other forces lead to adolescent suicide and the measures that can be taken to prevent it. We first considered the historical and cross-cultural aspects of suicidal behaviors. Societal and cultural stresses arise from parental attitudes, beliefs, expectations, and childrearing practices that evolve from the social and economic needs in each culture. If unbalanced by growth-sustaining supports, they may compromise or constrict the existential adaptive ability of the developing adolescent and place the adolescent at risk for suicide. Research into vulnerability in adolescence has revealed gender, ethnic, and geographic differences in the dimension of the problem and has indicated the social, psychological, and biological conditions that increase the likelihood that adolescents will resort to suicidal behaviors. Research is still needed to distinguish those adolescents who commit suicide from those adolescents with similar conditions who do not. Research has only begun to explore the ways in which the interaction of specific individual dynamics, precipitating events, and personal characteristics result in an adolescent's attempt of suicide. We discussed the strengths that adolescents acquire, but we emphasized the weaknesses that ensue as adolescents are faced with the impact of the thrust of their own biological, psychological, and social development with the forces inherent in their cultures. Adolescents progress through this period in their lives with varying and varied attempts to master, or cope with, the inevitable change in their existential status. Some try but fail and some fail to try, with resulting despair that can lead those adolescents to believe that suicide is the only choice they have to end their suffering. We described how psychodynamics can influence motivation, relationships, and behaviors, and how these may contribute to an outcome of suicide. Existing psychopathological conditions contribute. These include anxiety, dysthymia, posttraumatic stress disorders, acute reactive disorders, major affective disorders, severe conduct disorders, and psychotic disorders. We considered the possible lethal interplay between psychodynamic and psychopathological factors. This led to the crux of this report, a full discussion of prevention and treatment. The first and most important aspect of suicide prevention is early recognition of the adolescent at risk. It is of high priority to detect and treat those psychiatric disorders accompanied by greatest suicidal risk; depression, conduct disorders, substance abuse disorders, borderline conditions, and schizoaffective disorders. With all adolescents, threats of suicide must be taken seriously. There should be an immediate, complete psychiatric workup preferably before specific treatment begins. If crisis intervention must precede diagnostic study, the workup should not be delayed longer than necessary. Education of health care professionals, educators, families, and peers about warning signs can emphasize early intervention and thereby enable a skilled psychiatrist to assess suicidal thoughts, plans, means, and previous attempts, past and current life stresses, and available family and environmental support. All of this information will lead to a decision regarding hospitalization and treatment for the adolescent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

A computer-controlled version of a Y-maze was developed to allow automated testing of rats' learning and memory with visual stimuli. Each of the 3 arms terminated with 2 adjacent monochromatic screens, 43 cm from the maze centre, providing a total stimulus area 47 cm wide by 18.5 cm high. The displays were abstract patterns extending across 2 screens, generated by algorithms which provided a large pool of discriminable patterns. The patterns used were of 2 general classes: Scenes (internally complex patterns with varying numbers of foreground shapes distributed across contrasted backgrounds) and Objects (internally homogeneous single figures, confined to the central part of the display). They could be stationary or have oscillatory movement. Subjects' location in the maze was monitored by infrared beam photodetectors; approach to correct patterns was rewarded with food. Pigmented rats of the Hooded Lister and Dark Agouti strains were tested. All could acquire 2-pair concurrent visual discriminations comprising 2 positive and 2 negative patterns, either Scenes or Objects; most could acquire 4-pair discriminations. Dark Agouti rats generally performed better than Hooded Listers. A novel training procedure using one positive and many negative patterns resulted in rapid learning of novel discriminations with either moving or non-moving patterns. The apparatus is an effective environment for visual learning by rats, suitable for a wide range of tasks in neuropsychology and psychopharmacology.

The purpose of this study was first to compare 18-19-year-old male abstainers with alcohol consumers, and especially light consumers, regarding degree of sociability as indicated by their (in)security in the company of others, their number of close friends, intimate conversations with friends and their popularity in school. Secondly, we analysed the importance of antecedents to and covariates of abstinence. In addition, the significant antecedents and covariates gave us information as to abstinence patterns. The study was based on a survey of all Swedish males, 18-19 years old, conscripted for military service in 1969-70. Data had been collected by means of questionnaires and psychological interviews, giving measures of each respondent's social background, psychiatric/psychological and psychosomatic health status, substance use, deviant behaviour and degree of sociability. Poor sociability was more common among the abstainers than among all the other categories of drinkers, including the light consumers. The conscripts' social background, and especially their fathers' drinking habits, had the strongest effects in explaining abstinence. Sixty-two per cent of all abstainers had non-drinking fathers, compared to 28% of the light consumers. As to the majority of abstainers, this indicates a link between the social background of temperance and their own reported abstinence. Their poor sociability could be a consequence of abstaining at a young age when abstinence is uncommon. Those who abstained despite a drinking father showed a worsening psychological status, suggesting a link between psychologically impaired health, poor sociability and abstinence. Though the abstainers were the least sociable, the difference between the abstainers, the light consumers and the moderate consumers in other categories were generally small.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A pre-post design was used to examine the effect of a senior preceptorship experience on the adaptive competencies, environmental press perceptions and learning styles of 55 third-year community college nursing students. Kolb's experiential learning theory provided the framework for the study. Subjects rated their concrete and abstract competencies and the importance of divergent and convergent competencies significantly higher following the preceptorship. They also felt that the preceptorship experience contributed significantly more to their competency development than their weekly clinical experiences during the year. Contrary to expectations, administration of the Learning Style Inventory LSI-1976 and LSI-1985 produced inconsistent classifications of subjects' learning styles. Implications for nursing are described.

The capacity of 6-month-old infants to maintain information in working memory for several seconds was studied using two versions of an oculomotor delayed response task. Infants were presented with either a cue stimulus in a target location (Experiment 1), or an abstract, central stimulus (Experiment 2) which could be used to predict the peripheral location in which an attractive target stimulus subsequently appeared. Eye movements during delay periods from 600 to 5000 ms were recorded. The results indicated that infants maintained information about stimulus locations in working memory for 3-5 s. These results imply maturity of regions of the prefrontal cortex closely associated with a similar task used in neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies.

The objective of the study as to assess the consistency with which a set of pre-defined data about three fictitious patients was entered into a sample group of practice computer systems, and to measure the time required for routine data capture of this kind. The study design was a prospective, piloted, postal survey, in which respondents were requested to enter a variety of general sample data onto their systems, to time the process, and record details of any difficulties. The subjects were 76 (39%) responding general practices in England and Ulster, from a random sample of members of a GP computer specialist group. These results (which in view of the highly motivated characteristics of the responding sample are likely to represent best practice) showed that differing conventions were applied in entering patient data, even among practices using the same type of computer system. Potentially significant errors and distortions were found in the data as recorded in the systems, such as the 29% of immunisation sequences which were slightly inaccurately entered. The main problems with the data entry comprised simple operator errors, inconsistency in the use of terms entered, and difficulties in recording negative data (only 20% of practices could enter patient 'not incontinent'). Practices varied widely in the way they allocated data recording responsibilities to staff, with only 6% of practices involving all staff in data entry.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We should embrace respiratory care protocols. We have had a system in our hospital for more than two years; it has been very successful. We have approximately 60-70% of all of our therapy now ordered by a true protocol process. Some people have been dragged kicking and screaming through this process, including a number of respiratory care practitioners. It is more work. It is harder. Yes, it takes more time and more work to be a professional, but a professional is what you want to be. Anybody can go around and stick those nebulizers in people's mouths, but not everyone has the skill to determine which patients do not need that nebulizer or which may need a different drug or a different therapy. We must demonstrate through projects our ability to have an impact on the delivery of unnecessary and inappropriate care, and we must have physician support for what we are doing. These elements are essential to our survival. When we embrace appropriate and effective technology, we demonstrate value. If we show--through improved weaning technology--that we can decrease length of stay by decreasing the time that people are on ventilators, we demonstrate value. If we function as effective bronchoscopy assistants who help to treat people and get them out of the hospital or avoid hospitalization entirely, we demonstrate value. So, we must embrace technology. We need to function across the entire continuum of care to demonstrate value. We need to start managing health instead of managing illness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Those who as adults will be admitted to a psychiatric ward with a psychotic illness can be distinguished (on the basis of group differences) from others by their behaviour and academic performance at the ages of 7 and 11 years. Pre-schizophrenic boys are anxious and hostile towards adults and peers at the age of 7 years and show poor concentration. By age 11 years these boys are also rated as depressed, and pre-schizophrenic girls as depressed and withdrawn. Pre-affective psychotic boys show minor changes (for example an increase in hostility and restlessness) at age 7 years, although these features are not obvious at age 11 years. Abnormalities that in some respects resemble those in pre-schizophrenic boys are present at age 11 years in a group of females who will be admitted to psychiatric units with non-psychotic diagnoses by the age of 28 years. Academic impairments (including speech and reading difficulties) at ages 7, 11 and 16 years are more severe in pre-schizophrenics than in the other groups. Schizophrenics-to-be are slow to develop continence and show poor coordination and vision at age 7 years, and are rated clumsy at age 16 years. Psychosis reflects a disturbance of aspects of central nervous system function that are time-dependent and in certain respects gender specific. It is argued that the psychoses represent extremes of variation in a gene (or genes) that differs between sexes and controls the timing of development of the two cerebral hemispheres.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Follow-up of early-treated children with PKU has shown that diet discontinuation in childhood presents risks of cognitive and emotional dysfunction in a substantial number of adolescents and young adults. This dysfunction includes IQ loss, mental processing abnormalities, learning difficulties, anxiety and personality disorders. In addition, neurologic deterioration has been reported in several such individuals. As a consequence of this current understanding of PKU, diet continuation, at least through adolescence and in the young adult years, is now recommended. Many centers are extending this to a policy of "diet for life". This represents a major challenge to adolescents and their families. Metabolic control using the criteria applied during childhood is virtually impossible to achieve past 12 years of age. Time constraints, social pressures, financial limitations and growing independence from the family combine to interfere with dietary control. Added to these difficulties are the biological changes during teenage years which reduce phenylalanine tolerance. To meet these challenges, we have identified a number of psychosocial factors that interfere with adherence to medical recommendations. The factors most highly related to metabolic control were social support for the diet and positive perceptions of treatment. This information has led to the development of support programs for adolescents and young adults with PKU.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The aim of the study was to assess the incidence of abnormal eating behaviour in relation to age, sex, and body awareness as well as to find potential access to the prevention of eating disorders. The study population was taken from 203 female and 153 male college students aged 14 to 19 years. The method chosen was a self-report questionnaire asking for assessment of current body image and ideal body image by body size silhouettes, dietary habits, methods of weight control and symptoms of eating disorder. Measurements of height and weight were also included. Among girls, 63% are satisfied with their body shape, in contrast to 93% of the boys. The current body shape matches the ideal body image in 49% of the girls and in 69% of the boys. In two thirds of the female students the ideal body image corresponds to a slightly underweight silhouette, whereas in four fifth of the male students it corresponds to a normal-weight silhouette. A majority of girls (53% vs. 13% boys) is afraid of gaining weight. Four times as many girls use a variety of methods to lose weight. There were no sex differences concerning the regularity of meal intake. Only 13% of all students took all three main meals daily. Eating habits were significantly worse with higher body-mass index. A high risk for the presence of an eating disorder was seen exclusively in girls (4%), whereas the majority of boys (99%) are represented in the low-risk group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There are a number of arguments that purport to show, in general terms, that there is no difference between killing and letting die. These are used to justify active euthanasia on the basis of the reasons given for allowing patients to die. I argue that the general and abstract arguments fail to take account of the complex and particular situations which are found in the care of those with terminal illness. When in such situations, there are perceptions and intuitions available that do not easily find propositional form but lead most of those whose practice is in the care of the dying to resist active euthanasia. I make a plea for their intuitions to be heeded above the sterile voice of abstract premises and arguments by examining the completeness of the outline form of the pro-euthanasia argument. In doing so, I make use of Nussbaum's discussion of moral perception and general claims to be found in the literature of moral particularism.

A developmental systems approach incorporates clinical perspectives and offers a background for thinking about some of the ways we do research. Recent advances reveal both research opportunities and needs related to fostering child development in a pluralistic, democratic society. 4 topics are addressed that deal with individuality, context, and the search for meaning. First, individuality is discussed wherein our abstract thinking and our quantitative individual differences methods have revealed an urgent need to study the developing person. Second, classification is considered wherein our systematizing efforts reveal a need to understand the interplay among classified features of the person, as well as the particular methods that underlie our classifications. Third, the experiencing of development is discussed, wherein recent advances have revealed new ways of thinking about an individual's nonconscious--procedural and practicing--activities in development, as well as those activities that are conscious. Fourth, the issue of values is considered. Values contribute to our doing research, and we also need to acknowledge their importance as the object of developmental study in 4 children. The appreciation of context, of multiple windows of observation, and of our emotional "centeredness" as human beings who communicate and cooperate with others are crosscutting themes of the essay.

Traditional indicators for exploring the field of adolescent health have proven to be relatively inappropriate. The "Baromètre Santé" (health barometer) was thus designed to study youth between the ages of 18 and 24 in an original way. On one hand it permits the exploration of opinions, attitudes, and behaviour of French youth in a global manner, and on the other hand results may be compared with those of older generations. The study has revealed that French young people have a more pessimistic view of the evolution of their health status than their elders, with accidents being cited by far as the number one fear. The most important difference in perception between adults and young people is the attitudes concerning STD's and AIDS. As far as lifestyle goes, 27% of the young people interviewed admitted to having had troubles with insomnia during the three months preceding the interviews. Three fourths of the youth participating smoke or have smoked in the past, with no difference according to gender. On the other hand, those young people who indicated suffering from a depressive or nervous state were more often smokers than the others. More than one young person in five has tried some kind of drug during the past year, with hashish being by far the most common (99%). Overall the young people interviewed have a more permissive attitude toward drug use than adults studied. A direct link was observed between the consumption of alcohol, illicit drugs and tobacco. These multiple factors may indicate that France is facing a situation in which a part of its youth's behaviour can be considered disturbing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The term psychosomatic is sometimes mistakenly used as a virtual synonym of "somatoform", whereas there is a structural difference between alexythymia and hysteria. In adolescent psychopathology, where the interpretation of phenomena follows a dynamic and relational pattern, it is difficult to draw a distinction between psychosomatosis and hysteria. Pathological expressivities are often transient and do not depend on the course of an illness, despite being linked to moments of juvenile crisis in which the structural and dynamic reorganisation of the personality accentuates some regressive aspects of defensive operations. The body and its changes represents a motor of development or crisis according to how stimuli and personal and relational experiences are integrated in the image of self, which is in turn an instrument of the structuring of the identity in as far as it represents real and imagined physical aspects, both conscious and unconscious. The importance of the body in the maturation process is such that from the quality of an adolescent's relationship with his or her own body it is possible to trace the modes of development and identify the severity and extent of a psychopathological condition. It follows that body-centered symptoms are among the most frequently found in adolescence. Negative counter-attitudes by the adult in relation to the insufficiently integrated sexual and aggressive impulses sometimes shown by adolescents further underline the need to search for a type of communication which is accepted and therefore compatible with the construction of an acceptable self-image; the body therefore becomes a language used in communicating with the adult to express unease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Puberty and adolescence are not generally times of great stress and turmoil. The storm-and-stress theory has a long history, but can no longer be supported by recent empirical research. A modern approach to the psychosocial changes of these phases is based on the concept of developmental tasks in an age-appropriate and stage-appropriate way. Biological processes can influence an individual's psychological and psychosocial state, but psychological and psychosocial events may also influence the biological systems. Therefore, the timing and outcome of pubertal processes can be modified by psychosocial factors. The most important psychological and psychosocial changes in puberty and early adolescence are the emergence of abstract thinking, the growing ability of absorbing the perspectives or viewpoints of others, an increased ability of introspection, the development of personal and sexual identity, the establishment of a system of values, increasing autonomy from family and more personal independence, greater importance of peer relationships of sometimes subcultural quality, and the emergence of skills and coping strategies to overcome problems and crises. All these changes can be looked on as developmental tasks during normal development, but they can also help in understanding developmental deviations and psychopathological disorders. From the viewpoint of developmental psychopathology, several psychiatric disorders of puberty and adolescence can be seen in a new light.

One of the most neglected populations studied in victimology has been juveniles. The present study examines the impact of fear of crime among a sample of urban youth on their defensive actions. Studies of urban adult populations have found that a significant number of people fear to venture outside their homes at night. When they do go out, they often take defensive measures to insure their safety. Carrying "mace," whistles, guns, knives, and clubs, for example, is not uncommon. Some have indicated that they have undertaken training in a variety of self-defensive arts and/or keep dogs to protect themselves from the possibility of being victimized. Using data collected from a sample of 1,775 urban youth in 1986 it was found that this population has taken many of the same defensive actions. Only 11% of the sample indicated that they had not taken any defensive actions as a result of fear of crime. Nearly three-fifths took the precaution of having an escort when they went out at night. Learning a technique of self-defense was reported by 19% of the sample; 10% indicated that they carried "mace" or some other type of repellant. Only 4% reported that they carried a whistle because of crime concerns. Significant predictors of personal defensive actions include gender, crime-witnessing status, victimization status and type of victimization (theft vs. witnessing Other defensive actions taken by members of the respondents' households included installing a burglar alarm (22%), keeping a "trained dog" (17%), keeping lights on a night (39%), and installing security locks (38%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A consensus was not found among the participants regarding those characteristics that constituted a WFP and how word finding was different from or related to word retrieval problems, some forms of "dysfluency," and "language processing" difficulties. The lack of consistency was seen both within and across disciplines. Instances where there was consistent agreement among members of a discipline must be interpreted cautiously because a relatively small number of participants was involved in the interviews. Further, the results should not be generalized to an assessment of all children with WFPs, because only three children were viewed by the professionals. The findings do suggest, however, dimensions along which problems in interpreting WFPs may occur. The analysis of the clinician interviews and videotape viewing of the three language-impaired children have specific implications for clinicians when diagnosing WFPs in children. First, differences in the clinicians' knowledge of a what word finding is, how it is manifested, what relationship it has to other skills, and how it should be assessed was evident. Such differences in understanding WFPs in children have been described in the literature (Gardner, 1974; German, 1983, 1984; Kail & Leonard, 1986; Lewis & Kass, 1982; Nippold, 1992; Oldfield & Winfield, 1964; Snyder & Godley, 1992). Second, the clinicians frequently made diagnostic assumptions when they admittedly were unsure of their conceptual framework and that of their colleagues. The impact of these assumptions was seen in the clinicians' general lack of agreement in the identification of actual instances of WFPs and in their rankings of those tasks believed to be most helpful in making a diagnosis of a WFP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Understanding the stages of growth, saturation and transition is the first step to setting meaningful career goals. While this concept is fairly new in dentistry, it is not new in other commercial enterprises. Business managers and owners have known for decades that growth stagnates after a period of time. At that point, a new infusion of energy and a reformation of the business's objectives and methods are needed to launch forward into the next phase of growth. Transition management in dentistry represents periods of growth that are followed by saturation and a comparatively rapid changeover to a new practice form. Saturation occurs when the clinical capacity of a practice is exceeded by the needs of a growing patient base. The key transitions in the career of a dentist are those from school to practising, and practising to retirement. A great number of dentists (due to low motivation, the comfort level or poor management skills) never reach the saturation point during their practising career. For these dentists, starting out and retirement are the only transitions that will ever apply to them. Dentists evaluating transition options must first identify which career stage they belong to since their objectives will be different at each stage. Dentists in the growth phase should focus on practice management and achieving saturation before attempting a transition. Since transitions like start-up, retirement, partnerships, associateships and buy-ins have pivotal roles in the life cycle of a practice, transitions must be managed carefully to achieve successful results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To investigate the symbolic quality of preschoolers' gestural representations in the absence of real objects, 48 children (16 3-, 4-, and 5-year-olds) performed 2 tasks. In the first task, they were asked to pretend to use 8 common objects (e.g., "pretend to brush your teeth with a toothbrush"). There was an age-related progression in the symbolic quality of gestural representations. 3- and 4-year-olds used mostly body part gestures (e.g., using an extended finger as the toothbrush), whereas 5-year-olds used imaginary object gestures (e.g., pretending to hold an imaginary toothbrush). To determine if children's symbolic skill is sufficiently flexible to allow them to use gestures other than those spontaneously produced in the first task, in the second task children were asked to imitate, for each object, a gesture modeled by an experimenter. The modeled gesture was different from the one the child performed on the first task (e.g., if the child used a body part gesture to represent a particular object, the experimenter modeled an imaginary object gesture for that object). Ability to imitate modeled gestures was positively related to age but was also influenced by the symbolic mode of gesture. 3-year-olds could not imitate imaginary object gestures as well as body part gestures, suggesting that young preschoolers have difficulty performing symbolic acts that exceed their symbolic level even when the acts are modeled. Results from both tasks provide strong evidence for a developmental progression from concrete body part to more abstract imaginary object gestural representations during the preschool years.

To assess the learning styles and educational strategy preferences among critical care nurses, operating room nurses, and infection control practitioners. Descriptive multicenter survey using a self-report questionnaire. 108 hospitals from nine geographic regions of the United States. A random sample of 303 (93%) nurses in the three specialties responded to the survey questionnaires. The majority of participants (64%) had an abstract learning style and preferred the self-directed, discovery approach to learning. Nurses may be more abstract in their learning styles than previously reported. Experiential learning theory is an effective means of identifying nurses' learning styles and teaching/learning preferences, which can then be used to plan basic and continuing educational programs.

40 children ages 2 or 3 years were asked to express preferences for 9 abstract and 9 realistic paintings on two separate occasions. Children showed no clear preferences and these were stable over occasions. Their drawings were classified in the scribble stage. These results were consistent with downward extensions of aesthetic preference theories. Implications for the usual environments of young children were discussed.

Untreated rats normally avoid the open arms of the "elevated plus-maze," preferring instead the closed arms, whereas rats treated with antianxiety drugs (e.g., diazepam) show far less open-arm avoidance. Although it has often been assumed that rats avoid the open arms because of novelty, height, or open space, the anxiogenic role of these stimuli in the plus-maze has not been systematically examined. In Experiment 1, rats were repeatedly exposed to the elevated plus-maze with the expectation that their "fear" of the open arms would habituate over trials. Instead, open-arm avoidance actually increased on the second trial and showed no evidence of habituating after 18 trials. In Experiment 2, three 30-min sessions of confinement to the open arms ("flooding") failed to decrease rats' open-arm avoidance. Instead, rats that had received flooding avoided the open arms significantly more than control rats during the first test. Experiment 3 showed that although diazepam-treated rats avoided the open arms less than vehicle-controls on the first test this difference dissipated across test trials. Further, diazepam had no carryover effect on rats' subsequent avoidance of the open arms in a nondrugged state. In Experiment 4, plus-maze height was varied from 50 to 6 cm, but rats did not display more open-arm activity as maze height decreased. In Experiment 5, height cues were manipulated by placing a "floor" 8 cm beneath one open arm while leaving the floor of the other open arm at 50 cm. Rats did not avoid the "low" open arm less than the "high" open arm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The study objective was to investigate whether exclusively breast-fed infants could be taught to sleep through the night (defined from 12:00 AM to 5:00 AM) during the first 8 weeks of life. The design was short-term longitudinal, from the last trimester of pregnancy until the eighth week after birth. Twenty-six first-time parents and their newborn were randomly assigned to treatment and control groups (13 in each group). Treatment parents were instructed to offer a "focal feed" (between 10 PM and 12 AM) to their infants every night, to gradually lengthen intervals between middle-of-the-night feeds by carrying out alternative caretaking behaviors (eg, reswaddling, diapering, walking), and to maximize environmental differences between day and nighttime. All parents kept 72-hour diaries of their infants' feeding and sleeping patterns every week from birth to 8 weeks of age and rated their infants' temperament at birth and at 8 weeks. By 3 weeks, treatment infants showed significantly longer sleep episodes at night. By 8 weeks 100% of treatment infants were sleeping through the night compared to 23% of control infants. Treatment infants were feeding less frequently at night but compensated for the relatively long nighttime interval without a feed by consuming more milk in the early morning. Milk intake for 24-hour periods did not differ between groups. Treatment infants were rated as more predictable on Bates' Infant Characteristics Questionnaire. It is concluded that parents can have a powerful influence on the development of their infants' sleep patterns. Frequent night waking in breast-fed infants often results in early termination of lactation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The aim of this study was to analyse the day-to-day life of HIV-positive women during pregnancy and to assess the emotions deriving from their relations with the baby during the first few months of life. The study was carried out on a group of 16 HIV-positive women aged between 19 and 37 years old (mean age 27.3 years) who underwent a guided interview using a questionnaire. The questionnaire, which was mainly based on questions requiring a free answer, focused on four main areas: 1) the woman's reaction to HIV-positive status; 2) the influence of HIV-positive status on relations with her partner and surroundings; 3) the interaction between pregnancy and the HIV-positive status; 4) the relation between mother and children after birth and during the first few months of life. 56.25% of the women interviewed had become infected by intravenous drug injection, 25% through heterosexual relationships and 12.5% through blood transfusions. The cause was unspecified in 6.25%. The women had been aware of their HIV-positive status for between one and four years. Their reactions to HIV-positive status were predominantly denial, condemnation, and depression accompanied by a sense of death, anxiety and of being different. Relations between couples were influenced in a variety of ways by the new situation: 4 women reported a diminished frequency of sexual relations, one women reported reduced libido, 10 women did not notice changes in sexual relations and one woman did not reply.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There is uncertainty about the relationship between difficult temperament in infancy and reported problem behaviors later in childhood. In this study data from a large, representative community cohort (total N studied = 1583) were used to determine whether preschool behavior problems (at age 4 to 5 years) could be predicted from difficult temperament and other variables in infancy. Maternal ratings of difficult temperament on the Revised Infant Temperament Questionnaire predicted only 17.5% of those with preschool behavior problems, a percentage not significantly greater than the 14% of the total sample rated as having problems. There was some improvement in prediction when difficult temperament was added to other variables such as male sex (28%). However, mothers' overall rating of temperament was a more powerful predictor of preschool behavior problems, both alone (26.0%) and in combination with other variables such as perinatal stress (36.8%), male sex (29.5%), and non-Australian parent (29.4%). Similarly, maternal reports of infant behavior problems was a more powerful predictor of preschool behavior problems both alone (21.8%) and in combination with male sex (24.6%), low socioeconomic status (26.1%), non-Australian parent (21.8%), and nurse's overall rating of temperament (21.8%). The best consistent predictor of later problems was the combination of mothers' overall rating of temperament and maternal reports of infant behavior problems (27.0%), especially when combined with other infant variables such as perinatal stress (35.3%), male sex (31.5%), and non-Australian parent (30.0%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In this article we report on the first results of a research on the abilities and interactive behaviors of 16 infants aged from 4 to 7 months, with an infant of the same age. These infants are studied in dyads from the moment they are seated by their mother in two experimental seats. The position and distance of the seats are regulated at distance according to a procedure consisting in 8 phases of 3 minute duration each. The mothers of the two infants are present and can be seen by their child during the experimental session. The principal results can be summed up as follows: 1. The infant-partner is the first rank target of the gaze of the other infant. The frequency and duration of the orientations of the gaze in the direction of one or another of its body areas are significantly higher than the frequency and duration of the self-centered gazes (very weak) and the frequency and duration of the orientations of the gaze in other directions, including towards their mothers. These behaviors between the infants do not decrease in frequency or duration as long as the infants do not receive an object. 2. The face and hands of the infant-partner are the most frequent targets of the gaze; they also have the highest cumulated duration. The mutual catching of the eyes is also well represented, since this occupy the fifth place among the 25 items of behavior which were measured. 3. 4 of the 7 best represented items are the interactive behaviors with the other infant. 4. The manual behaviors already appear well organized, targetted, and visually controlled. In particular: the extension of the arm in the direction of the infant-partner, with the hand in pronation, lateral, oblique or in supination; the extension of the arm with a rotation of the hand from the pronation position to the supination position; taking the hand of the other infant. 5. Among the other complex behaviors one can observe diverse forms of imitation and modulated vocalizations which are rich in phonemes. 6. Most interactive behaviors are influenced by the human context (the different positions of the infants with regard to each other) and giving an object to each infant (last phase of the protocol). The infants appear, therefore, capable of taking into account most behaviors of the other infant in the organization of their own behaviors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

There is an increase in suicidal behaviour in the western world providing a major challenge to health care providers. There is an increase in the number of suicides among elderly people in Europe. The problem of suicides among elderly people is in itself a social problem, not solely a medical one. The general practitioner may be the only source of social contact for the elderly. Elderly individuals often present their problems to doctors as somatic complaints; these complaints must not be taken at face value but understood as expressions of psychosocial and social distress. The rise in suicide rates among young people is also alarming. The warning signs of escalating distress in adolescents are known and a treatment programme coordinating medical initiatives, such that recidivism of suicidal behaviour in adolescents is reduced, is necessary. The general practitioner is urged to sense when the problem presented by the individual stems from a source which is predominantly social, and to suggest an appropriate solution which may entail a family intervention. The general practitioner is in the front line of treatment and he or she may be better advised to treat both the social situation and the individual person in cases of attempted suicide. Medical initiatives must incorporate aspects of social medicine whereby community solutions are found for the management of individual distress. Social disruption, isolation, conflict and neglect are the doors to the house of despair. While medicine must respond to those who enter that house, it is the social level at which we must be the architects of change. People will die.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Behaviors that increase the risk of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) among adolescents living in rural areas have been reported to be as frequent as those of lower socioeconomic minority youth living in large urban areas. Little is known, however, about whether rural adolescents possess adequate knowledge upon which to make responsible decisions to avoid exposure to HIV. In order to address this deficit, we administered the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) 1989 Secondary School Health Risk Survey to 294 sixth, seventh, and eighth grade students (30.2% sample) from a rural county with significant social problems including epidemic sexually transmitted diseases STDs, sex-for-drugs, poverty, and drug abuse. The sample was 65% African-American, 50% female, with a mean age of 12.9 +/- 1.3 years. Although 68% reported having received school-based AIDS education, a lower proportion (greater than or equal to 10%) the students were found to correctly answer 8 of 17 AIDS/HIV knowledge questions than those from a national comparison group. The mean was 12.8 +/- 3.1 of 17 items answered correct. Lower AIDS/HIV knowledge was associated with lower school grade (rho = 0.46, p less than or equal to 0.0001); being African-American, Hispanic, or Native American (p less than or equal to 0.043); and never receiving school-based AIDS/HIV education (p less than or equal to 0.0001). Based on multivariate analysis of variance (ANOVA), only school-based AIDS/HIV education was a significant predictor (p less than or equal to 0.0001) of knowledge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study of urban, multi-ethnic children was undertaken to explore the relationships between age, cognitive developmental capability (termed 'cognitive maturity') and accuracy of information about health problems. A total of 299 children in the first, second and third grades from six public and one private school in New York City were individually interviewed using an open-ended set of questions. Findings indicated that having accurate health information is not the same as comprehending the abstract internal nature of the 'facts'. Results supported Piaget's levels of cognitive development applied to the area of health. Findings also showed that age is a better predictor of children's accuracy about health information than their cognitive maturity. The findings underscore the need for those providing health education to place emphasis on the cognitive abilities of children and not to mistake recitation of factual information for understanding of conceptual elements of a health problem.

The present study explores how stimulus variability in speech production influences the 2-month-old infant's perception and memory for speech sounds. Experiment 1 focuses on the consequences of talker variability for the infant's ability to detect differences between speech sounds. When tested with high-amplitude sucking (HAS) procedure, infants who listened to versions of a syllable, such as [symbol: see text], produced by 6 male and 6 female talkers, detected a change to another syllable, such as [symbol: see text], uttered by the same group of talkers. In fact, infants exposed to multiple talkers performed as well as other infants who heard utterances produced by only a single talker. Moreover, other results showed that infants discriminate the voices of the individual talkers, although discriminating one mixed group of talkers (3 males and 3 females) from another is too difficult for them. Experiment 2 explored the consequences of talker variability on infants' memory for speech sounds. The HAS procedure was modified by introducing a 2-min delay period between the familiarization and test phases of the experiment. Talker variability impeded infants' encoding of speech sounds. Infants who heard versions of the same syllable produced by 12 different talkers did not detect a change to a new syllable produced by the same talkers after the delay period. However, infants who heard the same syllable produced by a single talker were able to detect the phonetic change after the delay. Finally, although infants who heard productions from a single talker retained information about the phonetic structure of the syllable during the delay, they apparently did not retain information about the identity of the talker. Experiment 3 reduced the range of variability across talkers and investigated whether variability interferes with retention of all speech information. Although reducing the range of variability did not lead to retention of phonetic details, infants did recognize a change in the gender of the talkers' voices (from male to female or vice versa) after a 2-min delay. Two additional experiments explored the consequences of limiting the variability to a single talker. In Experiment 4, with an immediate testing procedure, infants exposed to 12 different tokens of one syllable produced by the same talker discriminated these from 12 tokens of another syllable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Up to 65% of American women work outside the home in paid employment, thus it is essential to examine the effect of that employment on the health of both women and their families. Employed women of all ages and occupations have a lower mortality rate and better reported and perceived health than women who do not work outside the home. The incidence of cardiovascular disease in women has not increased because of their increased participation in the work force. For hypertension, for psychological health, and for the incidence of coronary heart disease, women's emotional response to work is more important in predicting ill health than work itself. Working does not worsen women's health during pregnancy, and perinatal outcome may be improved for employed mothers. Middle-aged women who work have better measures of psychological and physical well-being. Employment seems to ahve a beneficial effect on the woman's family as well; more employed women confide in their husbands and report helpful or supportive responses from them. Multiple studies found no difference in many psychological and educational characteristics between children of working and nonworking mothers. One difference discovered was that children of working mothers are less likely to believe in "traditional" sex roles. There is no age group for which the employment of the mother is harmful, and at many ages if employment resulted in better maternal well-being, there is a definite gain for the children. More important than work itself is the mother's satisfaction with work, child care arrangements, and the home situation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Giuseppe R. Brera's B-test was used in a group of students from upper secondary school (102 male adolescents and 86 females) in order to carry out a preliminary standardisation in centiles and to assess the pattern of the seven scales of the test: mood, anxiety, interpersonal affectivity, sociability, autonomy of ego, strength of ego and guilt in adolescents. Factorial analysis by multiple correspondence was used in the same group of adolescents, with the exception of a subgroup of 20 14-year-old students from lower secondary school. The latter was carried out to assess the efficacy of the test in identifying groups of adolescents using the standard association of positive or negative methods of presenting the 44 variables and the free replies to the questions: what do you dream about, what do you look at, what do you advise. Standardisation in centiles allowed indicative risk scores for mental health to be defined for each factor, with the exception of the anxiety factor in males which appears to be a relatively widespread phenomenon in adolescent. Fewer adolescent females suffer from problems of depression, anxiety, interpersonal affectivity and sociability, whereas adolescent males present a smaller number of problems related to the autonomy of the ego, the strength of the ego and guilt. In line with previous works, the test identified 26% of adolescent males and 23% of adolescent females suffering from various in terms of the mean scores from the different factors. For the first time to our knowledge, multiple correspondence analysis identified nine groups of adolescents distributed along two factorial axes: 1 = mood, 2 = interpersonal affectivity. Groups 1 and 2 were characterized by being contrary to the other negative methods.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A descriptive exploratory study was conducted to ascertain the quality of life in school-age children 3 to 6 years following liver transplantation for chronic liver disease. Thirty children were to be included, however only 25 were recruited, and 20 of the 25 children became the study sample. The 20 school-age children ranged in age from 5 years 4 months to 11 years 9 months. The setting for the study was a conference room adjoining a social work office in a 220-bed university-affiliated children's hospital located in a large city in the Northeastern United States. The data were collected through the use of individual interviews, which were audiotaped and transcribed, and the written completion of an 80-item, self-report inventory. Interviews ranged in length from 1 hour 15 minutes to 1 hour 45 minutes. They were scheduled at a time that was convenient to the children's yearly pediatrician follow-up examination. Since the children and their families lived in other states and countries a great distance from the hospital, all communication with the families and scheduling of appointments were coordinated by the secretary of the pediatrician. The children in this study experienced liver transplantation 3 to 6 years prior to the interview for biliary atresia (n = 15), alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency (n = 3), tyrosinemia (n = 1), and neonatal hepatitis (n = 1). Eighty-five percent of the children (n = 17) experienced liver transplantation before the age of 6 years, and 15 percent of the children (n = 3) experienced transplantation after 6 years of age. Responses from the modified Pigem's test, a projective test of children's values and attributes about self, and from the Zamberlan Questionnaire were content analyzed, then categorized according to the specific areas representative of the children's evaluation of the quality of life. Interrater reliability of the categories demonstrated 87% agreement of the coded items on the interview data. Five categories were derived from analysis of the interview and Pigem's data and included: (a) psychosocial adjustment at school and relationships with peers and family members; (b) internalization of the donor organ, the knowledge of the liver transplant experience, and thoughts about the donor person; (c) changes in physical appearance and physical functioning; (d) emotions, fears, or concerns about rejection and future outcome of the liver transplant(s); and (e) children's satisfaction with present and future life, and thoughts about self as reflected on the Pigem's test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The number, sex and geographic distribution of the Spanish adolescents is reported. The mortality and mortality and their origins, specially for the behavioral remarking, the suicides and suicide attempts. The facts acting as producers. The incidence of diseases that traditionally produced death at an early age: cystic fibrosis, anorexia, nervosa, reporting also the own experience. The frequency in our country over pregnancy and its origin at this age, and the possible consequences in the newborn. The sexual transmission diseases and its relationship with the pelvic disease. Incidence of sexual intercourse, AIDS and substance abuse in Spanish adolescents supported in own statistics studies and literature. In the final conclusions is treated whose is the responsibility of all these adolescents cares and the history of these aspects in our society. In abstract it can be said that the adolescent is "that abandoned unknown".

Suicide during adolescence represents the second major cause of death in Western European countries. In Switzerland, death rates for suicide approximate 4 in 100,000 among girls and 20 in 100,000 among 15- to 19-year-old boys. These rates are four times higher for young adults from 20 to 24. Swiss adolescents exhibit the highest death rate by suicide among developed countries, and these rates have increased during the last 15 years at a faster pace than in the general population. Suicide attempts, above all by ingestion of drugs, represent a very common cause of hospitalization, especially among girls. The annual rate of suicide attempts approximates per thousand. The causes for suicidal conduct as well as its circumstances are various. The best prevention remains an individual approach. Health professionals as well as professionals from other background (teachers, social workers) have thus to find appropriate answers: When they meet adolescents who seem to suffer from psychosocial burdens, they should always look for suicidal thoughts or projects and then, if necessary, offer a therapeutic frame (on an individual basis or within the family). Prevention within the general public should mainly address nonspecific topics, such as the mental health of adolescents, their coping abilities and their environment; prevention programs specifically addressing the problem of suicide among adolescents have not proven beneficial and may even be harmful. On an individual as well as a collective level, each professional should be alert to his own psychological attitudes and reactions, which may be counter-productive if he is overwhelmed by the fears and stress that the act or threat of suicide generates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Our study hypotheses are based on extensive, clinical experience of patients with psoriasis and atopic eczema and on observations of emotions these patients tend to provoke in nursing personnel. We wanted to see whether there were statistically significant differences between these patient categories. We also wanted to compare dermato not equal to logical patients with patients seeking help for psychological problems (alexithymia-hypothesis). Since psoriasis starts and atopic eczema often gets worse in puberty or young adulthood, we chose to study teenagers. On this occasion, we will discuss the Rorschach test results of our female subjects (n: 99) and their mothers (n: 68) scored by Holt's "Method for Assessing Primary Process Manifestations and Their Control in Rorschach Responses" and the girls' scores on Edwards Personal Preference Schedule--questionnaire. The results seem to confirm the alexithymia-hypothesis and our control group of young psychiatric outpatients (mainly neurotics) produce more varied Rorschach protocols consisting of more primary process material and more creative solutions. In contrast, protocols of psoriatics are strict and formally good with occasional outbursts of slightly shocking primary process material. Girls suffering from atopic eczema produce long and varied, but rather defensive, Polly Anna-like protocols. The statistical differences between mothers and daughters within each diagnostic group suggest that the psychiatric patients differ most from their mothers in the following areas: they give more libidinal answers which often are of more primitive kind than the answers of their mothers, and, they seem to have better means of coping with their impulses than the mothers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In this chapter we have described some of the experiences of a special psychiatric clinic for children with epilepsy, drawing our examples from a series of 50 children. The behavioral consequences of epilepsy cannot be adequately described within the limited nosology available for classifying the behavior disorders of children. As an alternative, a series of behaviors which children actually require in order to maintain their social existence have been identified; furthermore, impairments of those behaviors have been pointed to, and consequences of these behavioral impairments have been outlined. The behavioral consequences of epilepsy are often multiple and are sometimes mutually interactive. The extent to which these behavioral deviations depend both upon the exhibition of seizures and the presence of structural abnormalities in the brain is made most evident by the marked changes in behavior which can be achieved when epilepsy is relieved and a lesion is removed. Unfortunately, such a stratagem is not available to the majority of children with epilepsy. For the time being, their cerebral impairment and the continuation of their epilepsy have to be taken for granted, and intervention then consists of the best possible management of their impairments and their distressing behaviors. Such management clearly requires psychiatric and psychological skills, although these skills do not necessarily lead to greater success than does the use of anticonvulsants or the use of surgery. Success is not an adequate measure of the appropriateness of the endeavor. It goes without saying that not all children with epilepsy suffer behavioral consequences along these lines, and indeed behavioral disturbances were not universal even in this highly selected series. Some children were seen merely as a way of improving their medical status or achieving surgical treatment. These more traditional medical maneuvers are easier to undertake and are more understandable to parents than are complex strategies of psychiatry. In any event, parents deserve considerable support. The language of psychiatry for children with organic cerebral impairments is extremely limited; this chapter has been an attempt to improve our vocabulary, which will be a necessary underpinning in order to improve the quality of our classification. Finally, we return to Bridge's statement. Firstly, we do not regard epilepsy as a disease any more than we would regard cough as a disease, and we find that orientations in that direction are likely to thwart our attempt at piece-by-piece dismantling of the many sorts of disease which might be associated with seizures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The core hypothesis of the authors is that certain particularities of the traditional bringing up of infants and young children in Côte-d'Ivoire modify its affective experiencing and therefore its libidinal organization. Ivorian breast feeding is extremely permissive, subjected to the sole wish of the child, traditionally until the age of 2. It maintains a belated mother-infant fusion in the context of intense oral satisfaction. The end of this idyllic fusion state generally is brought about brutally. When it is contemporary to the ending of carrying the child on the back, this milk weaning constitutes a true traumatic experience. The authors suggest that it functions as an "organizor" in the sense of Spitz: interdiction is concerned with access to the maternal body. The child's renouncing of possession of the mother's body thus leads him through replacement to adhere to the socialized and socializing body of the group (age group, siblings group). The main anxiety would be of abandonment as we constantly see in psychiatric clinical experience. Carrying on the back is not only an easy means of transportation of the infants. The fabric pocket which berths the infant since it is born is a privileged place of comfort, of exchange, of maturing and the authors suggest that it functions as a structuring of the body-ego of the infant. They also suggest that so gratifying a technique of back-carrying could lead to a shifting of the erogeneous zone to the body, thus making it apt to express all the richesses of the affective life. Language education is traditionally not the task of the parents but of the grand-parents and of the child community. The latter contributes to the building of a social-ego and of an identity which is defined along ethnical criteria. The enema technique is equally of interest at it is administered since birth and thereon almost daily, thus focusing the infants' interest on an erogeneous zone which in other cultures is less intensely and less early excited. Finally the authors discuss the first forms of socialization of the child after briefly recalling the importance of the lineage to which is attached the notion of the statute. The authors deal first with the social bypassing of opposition and aggression then with the notion of extended family, the roles of fathers, mothers and of the child community.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The way in which drugs are used is a result of structural factors, such as the pharmaceutical market and the system of professional health care, and of ideological ones, such as definitions of health and sickness, and perceptions about drugs and symbolic meanings attached to them. The foundations for ideological factors related to drug use are suspected to be created in childhood through personal and culturally shaped experiences related to health and sickness, with implications for adult health and illness behaviour. It is therefore important to explore the perceptions that children themselves have of medications, including the role that they play in children's ideas about therapeutic measures to be taken when they are sick. Sixty healthy Greek children, aged six and seven years, were individually interviewed about drawings they had made depicting themselves the last time they had been sick or not felt well. The content of their narratives was analysed for references to medications according to words which they used (e.g., by general description, by type of medication, by brand name), the spontaneity of their responses, attitudes expressed about the necessity of drugs for recovery, and descriptions of the process of being sick (ideas of causation, necessary behavioural changes, therapeutic measures etc.). Almost half of the children depicted and described themselves as alone while sick, often feeling isolated or denied access to regular activity; medications were seen as a way to resume normal activities and responsibilities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Numerous research reports have substantiated the role of stressful life events in relation to the onset of health changes. The relationship tends to hold across different age groups. Theoretically, adolescence has been considered a developmental crisis period of great stress, impoverished coping skills and high vulnerability to biological, social and psychological demands. The research problem addressed by this study was to examine the relationships between stressful life events and health symptom patterns, and the effect of two variables, coping and social support, theoretically considered to mediate the relationship between stress and health symptoms in adolescents. The following five hypotheses were tested in this research: 1. Health symptoms are positively related to stressful life events in adolescents, 2. Health symptoms are negatively related to coping in adolescents, 3. Health symptoms are negatively related to social support in adolescents, 4. When coping is controlled, the relationship between health symptoms and stressful life events will decrease, and 5. When social support is controlled, the relationship between health symptoms and stressful life events will increase. The study subjects consisted of 1090 high school students of the metropolitan city of Seoul. The following sampling procedure was used: 1. Of the 169 high schools in nine school administrative districts in the city, a proportional sample of ten schools was selected. 2. One class from each of the freshman and sophomore was randomly selected and all the students who were in the sampled class were used as the study sample. The study was limited to freshman and sophomore adolescents, aged 15 to 18 (mean = 16.6). Of the 1090 subjects 688 (63%) were boys and 402 (37%) were girls. An Adolescent Inventory of Stressful Life Events, a Health Symptom Questionnaire and an Adolescent Coping Inventory were adapted for this study. The Norbeck Social Support Questionnaire was utilized to collect the data on perceived social support. Five high school teachers in the areas of school health and counselling reviewed the items of each questionnaire for content validity. A pilot study was undertaken to ascertain reliability. Fifty three high school students responded to the questionnaires and gave their opinions on the items. For stressful life events, health symptoms, coping, and social support, the Cronbach's alpha's on the study were .70, .94, .77, and .76, respectively. Research assistants attended all the sampled classes with the school proctor to explain the purpose and procedures of the study to the students. The questionnaires along with a ballpoint pen were distributed to the students who were asked to complete each item.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Findings from an empirical research project on creativity, including controlled experimental assessment, indicate that the development of creative capacity occurs primarily during the adolescent period. Defined as the production of entities that are both new and valuable, creativity necessarily involves two specific types of cognition designated as the janusian and homospatial processes. Although there are precursors to the development of creativity during earlier childhood, both the motivation and the capacity to create appear first in the adolescent period. Important motivational factors derive from adolescent conflicts and developmental tasks such as the impetus to solve and consolidate issues relating to identity, the return of oedipal conflicts, and the pressures toward autonomy and independence. Engaging in creative types of fields and outlets helps generally to establish coherent identity during adolescence and beyond; the beginnings of a specific creative identity in adolescence are a necessary foundation for creative motivation and ability to create throughout life. The return of the oedipal conflict at the onset of puberty motivates the dual compliance and competition of the creatively disposed adolescent with his or her same-sex parent. The pressures toward autonomy and independence provide the motivational and affective substrate for the development of the homospatial and janusian processes. The homospatial process arises from the vacillating and concomitant experiences of autonomy (or separation) and connectedness. In the creatively disposed adolescent, one who activates and uses cognition to express and explore affect, the creative aspect of those experiences begins to be manifested in the concomitant cognitive separation and connection involved in superimposition of mental images. The janusian process arises from the experiences of rebellious oppositionality and intense emotional ambivalence. The creative cognitive aspect of these experiences is manifested in conscious conceptualization and use of simultaneous antitheses and oppositions. The use of simultaneous opposition in the janusian process at any age necessarily involves the capacity to grasp and manipulate abstract relations. Evidence for the first development of this capacity in adolescence comes from the research on formal operations reasoning and on understanding of the null class. Regarding the onset near that age period of capacity to use and comprehend the relational nature of opposition, supporting evidence derives from experimental data on the syntagmatic-paradigmatic shift. With regard to the homospatial process, which is largely responsible for the creation of effective metaphors, both the late appearance of class inclusion behavior and the inability of younger children to comprehend and use relational metaphors preclude a preadolescent onset of this creative capacity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Across several experiments, 6- to 8-month-old human infants were found to detect numerical correspondences between sets of entities presented in different sensory modalities and bearing no natural relation to one another. At the basis of this ability, we argue, is a sensitivity to numerosity, an abstract property of collections of objects and events. Our findings provide evidence that the emergence of the earliest numerical abilities does not depend upon the development of language or complex actions, or upon cultural experience with number.

Vestibular dysfunction was chemically induced in Long-Evans rats by intratympanic injections (30 mg per side) of sodium arsanilate (atoxyl). Following a one-week recovery period the rats were behaviorally assayed for integrity of the labyrinthine systems. All subjects were tested for presence of the air-righting reflex, the contact-righting reflex (by lightly holding a sheet of Plexiglas against the soles of the rat's feet), and body rotation-induced nystagmus. All animals were then tested for their ability to remain on a small (15 x 15 cm) platform. Next, the subjects were given two 10-min open-field tests during which ambulation, rearing, grooming, and defecation responses were recorded. Four to five weeks later all rats were tested twice (60 min per session) in the automated Digiscan Activity Monitor which provides a multivariate assessment of spontaneous motor activity. The rats with vestibular dysfunction (Group VNX) took significantly less time to fall off the platform (p less than 0.01). They also exhibited significantly more open-field ambulation but fewer rearing responses (ps less than 0.01). An examination of group correlation coefficients for open-field variables and the platform test scores revealed some interesting group differences (ps less than 0.05). In the Digiscan tests the atoxyl-treated rats exhibited fewer number of horizontal movements, but increased speed for these movements (ps less than 0.05). Vertical movements did not differ significantly in incidence, but these movements were greatly reduced in duration (p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It has been shown in recent years that optimal treatment delays or prevents diabetic late complications. The goal for therapy is therefore near norm-glycemia. The precondition is intensive education of the patient and the parents, as well as exact diet with known amounts of carbohydrates, multiple insulin injections and home blood glucose monitoring. We propose two different schemes for insulin therapy according to age: conventional insulin therapy in the younger child, and intensified insulin therapy with the insulin pen in adolescents. Conventional insulin therapy consists of two daily injections--before breakfast and before supper--of a mixture of short acting and long acting insulin. With the conventional insulin regime a rigid schedule of insulin injections and meals is required for optimal treatment of type I diabetes. This, however, is not accepted by adolescents since it conflicts with their age-related tendency for self-autonomy. In consequence, glucose metabolism deteriorates and HbA1 levels increase. Puberty is a period of high risk for the development of diabetic angiopathy, which determines quality of life and life expectancy. An approach to resolution of this dilemma is to adjust the insulin regime to the life-style of an adolescent rather than vice versa. Up to now, more than 30 adolescents with type I diabetes have been switched to intensified insulin therapy using the insulin pen. During a short hospital stay (5 days) they underwent an intensive teaching program of self control, insulin dose adjustment and nutrition with special attention to the management of unexpected situations such as additional or omitted meals, traveling and sports. Compliance improved markedly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Although many youth experience difficulty in the school-to-work transition, increasing numbers of black youth face more chronic difficulties that have far-reaching developmental implications. This chapter examines both objective and subjective aspects of chronic joblessness among black youth, with emphasis on gender differences in discouragement over job searches and related developmental issues. A life cycle approach to role strain and adaptation provides a coherent framework to guide theoretical inquiry into jobless black youth in America. Role-strain adaptation processes have special appeal because they provide a coherent conceptual base for studies on the nature, antecedents, and consequences of chronic difficulty in job search. Two basic notions in the proposed role-strain adaptation approach to joblessness among black youth are that discouragement in the job search and self-blame increase the risk of maladaptive responses to objective barriers and that objective and subjective cultural resources facilitate adaptive response patterns. The role-strain adaptation paradigm not only provides a parsimonious framework but also builds on a diverse theoretical and empirical literature (Barnett, Beiner, and Baruch, 1987; Bowman, 1989; Goode, 1960; Kahn and others, 1964; Merton, 1968; Pearlin, 1983; Sarbin and Allen, 1968). Role-strain adaptation models allow one to go beyond past studies on black youth, which have primarily been descriptive rather than theoretical and predictive. In addition to the foregoing benefits, a major virtue of the life cycle approach to job search strain processes is its explanatory power throughout the life span (Allen and Vande Vliert, 1981; Erikson, 1980; George, 1980; Levinson and others, 1978). A life cycle framework avoids common misconceptions that occur with a narrow focus on job search strain among black youth that fails to consider the continuity in chronic role-strain adaptation processes. In a broader life-span framework, the interrelated concepts of human development and cultural adaptation have unique explanatory power. Elsewhere (Bowman, 1989) I have noted that to develop means to grow out of, to evolve from--where experiences at one life stage not only follow but emerge directly from preceding life experiences. The related concept of adaptation involves a continuing process of incorporating past experiences into new patterns to strategically meet the challenge of changing life demands without undue compromise. For black youth faced with chronic joblessness, effective adaptation may require preserving core cultural patterns from prior generations, while also transforming such core patterns into new strategies to cope with job search barriers in postindustrial America.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Research shows that problem behaviors manifested early tend to persist into later life. Problem drinking does not necessarily commit the young adolescent to a life course of this behavior, but it does alter the probabilities. Conversely, early abstinence is a strong predictor of later healthful behavior. An important observation is that alcohol and other drug use tends to decrease along with smoking decreases. Young adolescents tend to believe that most of their peers engage in a particular type of behavior whether that is the actual case or not. There is a tendency across populations of adolescents to overestimate such behaviors by a factor of six or eight. In one study, school children estimated that about two-thirds of their peers smoked while the actual figure was about one-tenth. Adolescents tend to have weak orientation to the future, especially in regard to consequences of risk-taking behavior. College-bound adolescents tend to have a longer view of the future than those who do not pursue college, but in general adolescents think, "It can't happen to me," or, "It's so far off that I just can't think about it." They are focused on the here and now. Many youngsters when they think about it have a dismal view of the future. They are doubtful about their own ability to influence events in ways that build toward a rewarding life.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This brief review has covered three major areas: what kinds of information can infants encode in the first 6 to 9 months and what methods are available to measure their responses; the status of memory functions in infancy; and current models of synaptogenesis, a process likely underlying the emerging cognitive processes during infancy. We can conclude that infants are capable of learning even from the first hours after birth and show a rapid increase in their capacity to recall information and use it for further learning. Furthermore, neurobiologic models of development are beginning to define a more detailed picture of crucial phases in the first months for learning processes. There are four notable omissions in the above points and in the material covered in this review. Mentioning these in this summary serves to caution the reader that there is much more to consider, and to point to other active areas of investigation of infants' cognitive capacities. These points also serve as a partial response to the questions asked in the beginning of the paper about how far we have yet to go in our understanding of infants' learning and about what may be the observational blind spots for our generation of infancy investigators. First, we have not discussed what drives learning--why infants seek actively to acquire information and seem motivated to retain that information for later use? Lipsitt points out that much of early infant behavior is based on positive and negative responses to diverse stimuli of varying degrees of attractiveness, and that the "hedonic overtones," or the amount of pleasure, involved in a stimulus situation, certainly contribute to the infant's response. Until recently, studies of social and affective development have been essentially separate from studies of cognition. Currently, the field of "social cognition" symbolizes the link between studies of basic cognitive processes and social development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Difference limens (DLs) for linear frequency transitions using a 1.0-kHz pulsed-tone standard were obtained from 6- to 9-month-old human infants in a series of three experiments. A repeating standard "yes-no" operant headturning technique and an adaptive staircase (tracking) procedure were used to obtain difference limens from a total of 71 infants. The DLs for 300-ms upward and downward linear frequency sweeps were approximately 3%-4% when the repeating standard was an unmodulated 1.0-kHz pulsed tone of 300-ms duration. These DLs for frequency sweeps were not significantly different from DLs for frequency increments and decrements using 330-ms pulsed tones [J. M. Sinnott and R. N. Aslin, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 78, 1986-1992 (1985)]. The DLs for frequency sweeps of 50 ms appended to the beginning or the end of a 250-ms unmodulated 1.0-kHz tone were approximately 6%-7%. This greater DL for brief frequency sweeps was confirmed by varying the duration but not the extent of the sweep. Finally, DLs were greater than 50% when the repeating standard was a 50-ms rising or falling frequency sweep appended to the beginning of a 250-ms unmodulated 1.0-kHz tone. These results suggest that rapid frequency transitions are much more difficult to discriminate from frequency transitions of the same category (rising or falling) than from either a frequency transition of the opposite category (falling or rising) or an unmodulated tone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Adolescent pregnancy and adolescent drug use are important clinical and public health problems. Yet, few studies have systematically investigated the patterns of substance use among pregnant and parenting adolescents. Because adverse outcomes are not found uniformly for all adolescent mothers, use of illicit drugs may be a key factor in determining which mothers and their infants will have poor outcomes. In this study, the patterns of drug use are described and differences in the demographic and psychosocial profile among 253 pregnant adolescents are investigated. Results obtained from interviews and urine assay for marijuana and cocaine indicate that lifetime use was 84% for alcohol, 62% for marijuana, and 23% for cocaine, whereas use in the past year was 40% for marijuana and 17% for cocaine. Compared with nonusers, pregnant adolescent drug users were more likely to be North American black, have a history of elective abortion and venereal disease, report more negative life events and violence during pregnancy, and receive more support from the father of the baby who was more likely to use marijuana and cocaine (P less than .01). Furthermore, according to logistic regression analysis results after controlling for age and ethnicity, adolescents who used illicit substances in the past year were three times more likely to have a male partner who used marijuana or cocaine and were two times more likely to have a history of venereal disease compared with nonusers. The findings suggest that drug use, whether as a mechanism or a marker, is associated with social and medical characteristics that are likely to contribute to negative outcomes among adolescent mothers and their infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The nature of the evidence on the role played by early stimulation history in perceptual development related to an appreciation of intermodal attributes involving space and time is reviewed. In conjunction with this analysis, an examination was undertaken of the effect of early visual deprivation on the ability of dark- (DR) and light-reared (LR) rats to learn discriminations involving location of sounds or lights and to abstract the intersensory correspondence involved from the initial modality-specific training. Visually inexperienced DR rats were somewhat slower to acquire a discrimination involving the location of visual events under some stimulus/response arrangements. More importantly, such animals were not as effective as their visually experienced LR counterparts in demonstrating cross-modal transfer (CMT) to signals in a new modality. The present study also revealed that CMT involving location of signals was less salient than CMT of duration information in rats regardless of their rearing condition. Finally, findings are discussed more generally, providing contextual information that bears on issues related to parallel cognitive functions in rats and human neonates and on the role of early visual experience in the ontogeny of intersensory perceptual competence in mammals.

Spinal cord injury primarily affects those aged 15 to 29 years, and thus the injury occurs at a time when critical developmental tasks are being confronted. Not only may normal development be disrupted, but this age group may lack the life experience required to cope with the enormity of the multiple sequelae of the injury. The literature suggests that psychological adjustment to any disability is particularly difficult for adolescents and young adults, and that, as yet, psychosocial problems are minimally acknowledged in rehabilitation treatment programmes. This preliminary study of 15 young people with recent spinal cord injuries had two purposes: to describe the meaning of body changes from the perspective of the injured persons and to describe the strategies they used to respond to the changes. The researcher conducted intensive interviews with the participants. These interviews were transcribed verbatim, analysed and interpreted. It was found that the behaviours of the subjects focused on a concern with feeling normal and being valued, and the use of deliberate strategies that helped to engender positive feelings in this regard. Efforts to normalize were consistently seen in three areas: physical appearance and function, physical and emotional independence, and social skills and interpersonal relationships. The means used to maintain normalcy were ingenious and resourceful, and were, for the most part, developed by the subjects without direction from their caregivers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A questionnaire designed to measure the application of the dimensions of the Health Belief Model (HBM) to AIDS prevention and to practicing safer sex was administered to 139 undergraduates aged 22 years and under. Students generally had good knowledge about the facts of AIDS, which was consistent with other studies. We found an important difference between students' beliefs about practicing safer sex to prevent AIDS depending on whether their level of knowledge was high or low. The HBM posits that all of its dimensions must be present in order for belief to be followed by action. However, students with low knowledge indicated that the perceived barriers to practicing safer sex were higher than did students with high knowledge about AIDS. These results suggest that special efforts need to be made to teach students with low knowledge more about AIDS and that the barriers to safer sex can and should be overcome. There were no differences between students known to be sexually active compared with those who may or may not have been sexually active. One explanation was a possibly high number of students in the group identified as "perhaps sexually active" who actually were sexually active. Similarly, there were no differences between college students who did or did not know someone with AIDS, but this may have been due to the small number of students who did know such a person. Students' preferences for the format and methodology of AIDS education also were presented. In general, the students preferred small-group discussions and formats such as movies or panel discussions where they could remain "anonymous."(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Nutrition intervention programs are not always successful. In some cases, an insufficient understanding of the interrelationships among factors influencing health behaviors may be responsible for the failures. This study used social cognitive theory, a framework for studying behaviors, to structure the relationships between measurable factors important to the frequency of health-oriented food consumption. We developed a model that incorporated factors for social environment, reinforcement, commitment, behavior modeling, knowledge, and attitude relative to the frequency of consumption of four beverages (whole milk, low-fat/skin milk, regular soda, and diet soda). Four-hundred fifty-seven middle-aged adults (mean age, 47 years; 58% female) and 709 college students (mean age, 21 years; 50% female) responded to a written questionnaire designed as a self-report on frequency of consumption and measures for 10 social cognitive variables. For all four beverages, the model explained 35% or more of the variance in frequency of consumption, thus confirming its predictive power. We used the statistical approach known as path analysis to examine the relationships within the model. The analysis demonstrated that factors influencing the consumption varied between the two age groups (e.g., nutrition knowledge was related to attitude in adult soda-drinking models but not in student soda-drinking models) and between forms of the beverages (e.g., for student models, nutrition knowledge was related to taste enjoyment for low-fat/skim milk but not for whole milk).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It has been demonstrated many times that the posture of infants is affected by movement of the visual environment. However, in previous studies, measurements taken with infants less than 10 to 12 months of age have always been recorded with the infants in a sitting position. An experiment is reported in which the postural reactions to a sinusoidal movement of the visual environment were recorded in infants 7 months of age and older standing with support. Fifty subjects divided into five groups (mean age 7.15 to 48.6 months) participated in the experiment. The groups differed in age and motor ability. Movement of the visual environment was achieved by means of a floorless room that could be moved sinusoidally in the anteroposterior axis. The subjects had to stand holding a horizontal bar fixed to a force-measurement platform. For each subject, measurements were made during four 60 s intervals: two with movement of the room and two with the room stationary. For all groups, reactions in the anteroposterior axis were stronger than in the lateral axis and this was true for both stimulus conditions. Comparison of the differences between the movement and stationary conditions in the anteroposterior axis, as a function of age, shows that the youngest infants seemed paradoxically to give stronger reactions when the room was stationary than when it was moving; the inverse was true for older infants and this difference increased with age. An analysis of the data with fast Fourier transforms reveals that the majority of subjects showed a pattern of postural reactions where the dominant (peak) frequency was identical to the peak frequency of room movement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

After having carried out a historical review of industrial psychology with specific attention to the evolution of the concept of causality in accidents, the Authors formulate their work hypothesis from that research which take into highest consideration the executives' attitudes in the genesis of the accidents. As dogmatism appears to be one of the most negative of executives' attitudes, the Authors administered Rockeach's Scale to 130 intermediate executives from 6 industries in Latium and observed the frequency index for accidents and the morbidity index (absenteeism) of the 2149 workhand. The Authors assumed that to high degree of dogmatism on the executives' side should correspond o a higher level of accidents and absenteeism among the staff. The data processing revealed that, due to the type of machinery employed, three of the industries examined should be considered as High Risk Industrie (HRI), while the remaining three could be considered as Low Risk Industries (LRI): in fact, due to the different working conditions, a significant lower number of accidents occurred in last the three. A statistically significant correlation between the executives' dogmatism and the number of accidents among their workhand in the HRI has been noticed, while this has not been observed in the LRI. This confirms, as had already been pointed out by Gemelli in 1944, that some "objective conditions" are requested so that the accident may actually take place. On the other hand the morbidity index has not shown any difference related to the different kind of industries (HRI, LRI): in both cases statistically significant correlations were obtained between the executives' dogmatism and the staff's absenteeism. absenteeism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Models of infant visual preferences with predictions based on the physical attributes of visual patterns were evaluated using pairs of schematic faces and abstract patterns that were identical except for contrast reversals. Preferences at 6 weeks were entirely consistent with the predictions of these models. However, at 12 weeks the preferences for facelike images were in clear violation of the predictions of these models. These results represent the first unambiguous demonstration of a face preference in young human infants. The results also allow rejection of all current stimulus-based models of visual preference and suggest that a fundamental change in the determinants of visual preference occurs between 6 and 12 weeks postnatally.

The paper focuses on current concepts of temperament that has led to different approaches within the field of temperament research. The concept of temperament has interested scholars from ancient Greece until modern European and American research teams. Also in Soviet psychology temperament is getting attention. In Finland temperament research has advanced on two different lines. There is widespread agreement that temperament is a group of related traits and not just one trait attributed to the child. Controversy exists as to what extent temperament is an inborn characteristic of the child and to what extent temperament is born in the interactions between the child and his environment. Although there is controversy between structural and functional approaches, there is consensus of some points. First: temperament is generally regarded as a tendency existing over long periods of time rather than being visible in single behavioral acts. Second: temperament traits are genetically transmitted and this biological basis has been shown in several twin studies. Temperament concerns differences between individuals and not species-general characteristics. Temperament research has a tradition of putting emphasis on infancy. In adulthood temperament traits are more difficult to pin down. Pioneering researchers in the field, Chess and Thomas, have suggested that pure temperament traits might in adult personality be seen only in situations where new environmental challenges render former coping skills ineffective. Temperament research is still very scarce concerning adult personality though there are some studies about the role of affect in adult personality. Two basic temperament traits are generally accepted: activity level and emotionality, for the rest there are disagreements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We examined the determinants of 2-month-olds' preferences among facelike and abstract patterns. Observed preferences were compared with the predictions of two preference models--one based on stimulus energy (as measured by the amplitude spectrum) and the other based on stimulus structure (as measured by the phase spectrum). It is known that the phase spectrum is the primary determinant of perceived identity to adults. Twenty-five 2-month-olds saw six pairings of four patterns: a schematic face, a lattice, a pattern composed of the amplitude spectrum of the lattice and the phase spectrum of the face, and a pattern composed of the amplitude spectrum of the face and the phase spectrum of the lattice. Only patterns with the face's phase spectrum look facelike to adults. Unlike the preferences of newborns (Kleiner, 1987), 2-month-olds' preferences could be predicted from the phase spectrum but not from the amplitude spectrum. In other words, the 2-month-olds preferred the patterns that looked facelike to adults. These results offer clear evidence that 2-month-olds' preferences for facelike patterns are not governed by stimulus energy.

84 3-month-olds were tested in 3 studies of the acquisition and long-term retention of category-specific information. Infants who were trained with a perceptibly different member of an alphanumeric category on each of 3 days generalized responding to a novel instance of the original training category but not a novel member of a novel category during a 24-hour novelty test. 2 weeks later, when infants displayed no evidence of remembering their prior training experience, categorization was reinstated if a novel exemplar from the original training category was used as the retrieval cue in a memory reactivation procedure. A novel exemplar from a novel category was not an effective retrieval cue. The effectiveness of the category-specific retrieval cue was a function of its physical similarity to the individual exemplars encountered during training, not testing. The background against which the alphanumeric exemplars were displayed during training was not an effective retrieval cue in either the 24-hour novelty test or the memory reactivation procedure, indicating that all invariant stimulus attributes do not contribute equally as category cues. These data are the first to document retention of category-specific information after extended intervals. A popular account of categorization holds that infants abstract invariant features from individual exemplars and form a schema or distinctive memory representation of these shared features against which subsequent exemplars are compared. The present data provide support for a more parsimonious account of categorization, based on the retrieval of information about individual exemplars, that does not require an assumption of prototype formation.

Adolescents are a group at high risk for exposure to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Results of a random-sample survey of 860 adolescents 16 to 19 years of age, in Massachusetts indicate that many adolescents are still misinformed or confused about AIDS and AIDS transmission. Of the adolescent respondents, 70% said they were sexually active (having sexual intercourse or other sexual contact) but only 15% of them reported changing their sexual behavior because of concern about contracting AIDS, and only 20% of those who changed their behavior used effective methods. Of both sexually active and nonactive adolescents, 8% did not know that AIDS is transmitted by heterosexual sexual intercourse. Psychoactive drugs other than alcohol and marijuana had been used by 13% of those responding, and 1% reported injecting drugs. Of those psychoactive drug users, 8% did not know that AIDS can be transmitted by injecting drugs. There was no significant difference in knowledge between the sexually active and nonactive adolescents concerning sexual behavior and AIDS transmission or between the drug users and nonusers concerning drug use and AIDS transmission. The majority of respondents knew a relationship exists between AIDS and blood, and other body fluids, but knowledge of the mode of transmission was limited. Hence, many adolescents, including those in the highest risk subgroups of sexually active or psychoactive drug users, did not know what sexual and drug precautions are needed to prevent transmission of the virus. School systems and health care providers should systematically educate this population about AIDS to counter the current misinformation and confusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To summarize, six issues have been identified in this article that need to be considered before adequate assessment of relative efficacy of treatment programs can be attempted, starting at the front door of treatment. First, the differential referral sources that bring these youngsters to treatment must be considered, with their differential perspectives and definitions of problem behavior. Second, the differential characteristics of the patient population must be assessed. This involves, primarily, systematic and thorough medical and psychiatric diagnosis, but it also includes careful assessment of genetic, familial, social, legal, and developmental characteristics that subcategorize these youngsters. As indicated, when this is done the typical adolescent referred for treatment is likely to have a lifetime diagnosis of attention deficit disorder, conduct disorder, some drug use diagnosis (most likely alcohol and marijuana), past legal problems, a family in turmoil (which has included personal, physical, and possibly sexual abuse to the youngster and also genetic loading for alcoholism), or some learning disability. Third, the differential characteristics of treatment programs must be adequately described and catalogued. No such assessment instruments currently exists. The differential characteristics based on philosophy, treatment strategies, personnel selection, patient admission criteria, treatment techniques employed, length and type of treatment, and length and type of aftercare, all must be assessed. Fourth, the presence or absence of differential treatment strategies responsive to the particular needs of individual adolescents must be categorized. In addition to the overall philosophic flexibility of the program, the capability of responding to particular issues such as the presence of major depressive disorder, learning disability, sexual abuse, or the need for a careful neurologic assessment for subtle temporal lobe issues, must be identified in the program. Fifth, the differential response of the youngster to the treatment process as it is progressing must be able to be assessed and considered as a variable. For example, the ability of the youngster to participate in group confrontational sessions and honestly review his or her past behavior is a measurable variable that to date is ignored in program evaluation. Essentially the only variable currently assessed is treatment completion or failure to complete treatment. Sixth, appropriate outcome variables need to be identified and used. While abstinence is a laudable theoretic goal of treatment, the reality falls somewhat short of that goal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The phenomenon of monogamy is complex both because different characteristics associated with monogamy are displayed by different species and because different authors tend to focus on different characteristics, in part because of the species they study. The essence of monogamy appears to lie in three dimensions--exclusivity of mating, shared parental care, and association. However, many species that can be treated as "monogamous" may fail to show one or more of these characteristics. No one characteristic can be taken as definitive of monogamy. As a rule of thumb, we might consider a system monogamous if two of the three dimensions of monogamy are present. Monogamy, then, is not a unitary construct, but a general term that is useful in delineating a range of phenomena. A fascinating set of questions concerns the determinants of exclusivity of mating, shared parental care, and different kinds of association and when each is and is not shown. This search can be hindered by overreliance on "monogamy" conceived as a unitary characteristic. I find myself following in the footsteps of Frank Beach's Nebraska Symposium paper of 30 years ago in arguing against a unitary concept of monogamy, just as he argued against a unitary concept of "sex drive." Mating systems, such as monogamy, are the product of the behavioral patterns displayed by individual organisms. Our work on voles, like that of Mason and his associates on primates, reveals important differences in the motivational systems of monogamous and nonmonogamous species. Animals show both plasticity within species, as individuals encounter different conditions, and remarkably stable species differences, as laboratory-reared individuals vary reliably. The delineation of these personality profiles of species displaying different proclivities toward mating systems illustrates the utility of the comparative method and can help unravel the underlying causes of a variety of psychological differences, from those affecting mate choice to sex differences in spatial learning. They are thus fundamental to a comprehensive understanding of any species. Although the goal of comparative psychology lies in generating principles of generality concerning behavior rather than in direct extrapolation to humans, results can provide worthwhile hypotheses regarding the evolution of human behavior. Although monogamy and mate choice in humans may be regulated by underlying processes different from those in other species, there are many functional similarities, and both are ultimately the products of natural selection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The loss of a significant object, the loss of a home (security, personal possessions, familiar space that has emotional meaning), the dislocation from one's home or land as occurs in wars or disasters, gives rise to stress-strain responses that may have short-term or long-term effects, eg, post-traumatic stress disorder. The hidden or neglected victims of such occurrences frequently are children--be they siblings or direct descendants. In childhood sibling loss, the effects of the loss are mediated through different members of the family. The acute stressors can give rise to later adversity unless it is recognized that there is a social context in which life and death events occur. Recognizing these individual responses in the family can lead to interventions that may prevent later difficulty. Understanding the meaning of the events to the child, appreciating the fact that events are not just single occurrences, but interact with what existed before as well as with other concomitant events, helps in our therapeutic recommendations and interventions. Sibling loss, though initially related to the death of a sibling, can now be expanded to include the loss of a sibling through chronic illness (emotional, medical, surgical, long-term hospitalization), birth injuries, disabled children (accidents or illness with body changes), chronic illness with visible as well as non-visible changes that require special parental and nursing care, medication on an ongoing basis, and restrictions in diet and activities. The impacts of these losses without death can have devastating effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Cognitive development was examined in relation to the amount of time students would deliberate before making a decision, the effect of perceived emotional stress on decision making, and identification of all possible decisions that would have to be made. Subjects were 94 eighth-11th grade students in New Mexico and Montana. Results indicated abstract thinkers had a better decision-making process than concrete thinkers and made more health promoting decisions. Health educators are challenged to create educational strategies that enhance abstract development and teach classic steps of decision-making, thus improving the decision-making ability of youth.

The general finding of this cross-national survey is that, contrary to expectation, professionals in the United States, irrespective of discipline, are more convinced that infantile autism is caused primarily by genetic/organic factors when compared to European professionals. Psychiatrists in the U.S.A. give priority to organic factors (97%), followed by constitutional factors (84%), genetic factors (77%), and metabolic disorders (58%). With psychologists and other professionals in the U.S.A. the trend is about the same. An analysis of the differences in responses to items on environmental factors, such as birth complications, viral infection, pollution and receptive language problems, again shows that professionals in the United States tend to attribute more importance to these factors than their European counterparts. In general, half of the Europeans believe in the importance of these factors as compared to professionals in the U.S.A. It is only when we deal with parental psychopathology that we find a reversal in trends. If we combine the "somewhat important" and "highly important," 35% of psychiatrists in the United States and 54% of psychiatrists in Europe indicate that parental psychopathology may be a factor in infantile autism. For psychologists, the percentages were 26% and 50% respectively. No difference was found when "other professionals" in the U.S.A. and Europe were compared. There are some contradictions in the findings. While the responses of 97% of the psychiatrists in the U.S.A. point to organic factors as being "somewhat" and "highly important" in the causation of infantile autism, 36% of them indicate that parental psychopathology might have some influence on the illness. Thus, while almost 100% of psychiatrists subscribe to an organic origin of the illness, about one third of them are still not willing to completely discount parental contribution. The 12th etiology which was added, "cultural factors," was considered to be of least importance. It is assumed that the respondents might have missed the implications of the question. For a discussion of the sociocultural aspects of infantile autism, the reader is referred to a number of papers published in this area (Sanua, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985). As an analogy, there is still some controversy about the universality of the existence of schizophrenia. In a review of the literature on the subject, Torrey (1973) concluded that "process" schizophrenia is found in all cultures which have been exposed to Western technology. He points out the need to conduct well-planned field surveys of the prevalence among groups that are in varying stages of exposure to Western technology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

According to official statistics 11 million under 25's, thereof 5-6 million under 20's in the 12 OECD member states are unemployed at any given time. In depth studies show that this figure is at least 40-50% higher. In many countries a systematic under-reporting exists in the registration of unemployed. Surveys used to show more relevant figures. Unemployment hits mainly adolescents, school leavers, young adults (unskilled male and female) immigrants and then, indirectly, those who are in need of familial and social support, i.e. the frail, sick, disabled children and old people. In many cities in Europe 40-50% of 18-25 year olds are unemployed and figures as high as 90% have been reported (inner cities). Unemployment is endangering the socio-economic status of people, in spite of short-time unemployment benefits and is creating inequalities in health and serious social misfits. Loss of job or the mere prospect of becoming jobless have, in follow-up studies on an individual level, been found to cause elevated blood pressure and serum cholesterol, increased concentration of blood catecholamine and elimination of noradrenaline, an increase in the frequency of stress and psychosomatic diseases. After regaining employment, these values have normalized. Unemployment is therefore considered by many as a real source of stress. Chronic stress is now considered as a major contributor to cardiovascular diseases, ulcers, asthma and some other diseases. According to several well designed and controlled studies on the individual level in the developed countries, the majority of young people do not learn to cope with unemployment. It fosters isolation, loss of self-esteem, frustration and hopelessness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The automated laboratory systems described in this paper were developed for use at the National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR) and each of five collaborating laboratories. These laboratories participated in a study designed to evaluate the intra- and interlaboratory reliability and sensitivity of several behavioral test methods used in developmental toxicity studies. This paper describes two microcomputer systems. System I was designed to control stimulus delivery to and record behavioral responses from rats during a visual discrimination learning task and to accept data from physical landmark, negative geotaxis, and olfactory discrimination evaluations. The microprocessor system was an S-100 bus, Z-80 processor with 8K PROM, 16K RAM, nine 8-bit parallel I/O ports, and one serial I/O port. For discrimination learning, the animal testing apparatus consisted of six operant chambers, equipped with two stimulus lights, two nose-poke apertures each containing a phototransmitter and receiver, an electromechanical liquid dispenser unit, and a reward bowl also containing a photodiode. Each chamber was interfaced with the microprocessor at a parallel I/O port which permitted the delivery of response- or time-contingent control signals for the lights and liquid dispenser units. System II controlled stimulus delivery and recorded behavioral responses from rats during an auditory startle habituation task, and also recorded rodent activity levels in figure 8 mazes for periods of 1, 4, or 23 hours. The microprocessor system was an S-100 bus, Z-80 processor with 8K PROM, 16K RAM, nine parallel I/O ports, an analog to digital (A/D) I/O board, and one serial I/O port.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Separation of theoretical pathology into an independent branch of science seems to be justified and creation of the Centre of Theoretical pathology in the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences is due and useful. As W. Doerr truly states, the theoretical pathology seems to be over the pathological physiology and general pathology, exerts additional functions, studies questions of the methodology in pathology, defines more exactly and analyzes the notion of disease, other concepts and terms, clarifies early preclinical and clinical disease manifestations, determines sociological and psychological factors of disease. However, we are not in full agreement with our colleagues from the FRG in the definition of "disease" and in the interpretation of such categories as "spirit", "soul", "psychic". K. Rotschuh' suggestion to consider the disease in terms of "body-soul" appears to be interesting but to be productive, it must be linked with the problems of medical psychology. W. Doerr and his colleagues support the dualistic concepts of human nature which is unacceptable for us; they claim that the understanding of the theoretical pathology essence is possible only on the basis of theleology and spirit (theology). As the highest commencenment on the way of the theoretical pathology recognition W. Doerr's categorical declaration that theoretical pathology based on the "gestalttheorie" returns scientists, as he writes" to their great delight, to the possibility of studying "spiritual essence of the disease". In W. Doerr's opinion, studying the concept of theoretical pathology "from the spiritual point of view" will ensure its brilliant future. Of course, we, Soviet pathologists and philosophers, do not reject the significance of the integrity theory in the meaning of the disease psycophysiological integrity, yet we decidedly reject any idealistic concepts. W. Doeer and his colleagues are right that the theoretical pathology stimulates the search of the approaches to the solution of complex biomedical problems, favours the creation of more precise definitions and terminology. Likewise, W. Doerr is right that he sharply condemns the attempts of some pathologists to substitute qualitative differences in pathological processes by quantitative ones; this may result, in his view, in one-sided erroneous conclusions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Children's concepts develop through different stages from global and undifferentiated to concrete and abstract. In the concrete stage perceptual and physical attributes of a concept are dominant. In the abstract stage the essential mental and nonperceptual attributes of a concept are grasped. In general, children's concepts of illness shift with age from definitions based largely on feeling states to broader, more precise definitions that include specific diagnoses and psychosocial indicators of illness. The basis for determining if one is ill also shifts with age from reliance on external cues to reliance on internal body cues. Children's knowledge of specific illnesses increases markedly during the school-age years. It appears that their concepts of specific illnesses are a synthesis of real knowledge and imaginative distortions. Children's concepts of illness causation also develop through different stages from global and undifferentiated to concrete and abstract. School-age children tend to attribute illness causation to their own actions but with age illness is increasingly attributed to external causes. There is in the school-age years increasing differentiation between external and internal in explanations of illness causation with inclusion of means of internalization of the causal agent and intermediary steps between cause and effect. This trend continues in adolescence with description of the illness mechanism in terms of physiologic processes, internal organ, and malfunctions.

Two groups of adolescents (N = 357) consisting of 212 tenth-grade students and 145 ninth-grade students were administered the Rokeach Value Survey (1960) to determine how adolescents identify with traditional values and with those values containing concrete or abstract components. The subjects ranked 18 terminal values according to their importance. Values that can be experienced to some extent by adolescents were ranked highest by both groups, but social values that seemed abstract or impersonal were ranked lower by both groups. Values dealing with the inner self were ranked higher by the 10th-grade group. Ninth-graders' modality for idealism seemed to influence their views of values such as a world of peace and pleasure. Tenth-graders' greater socialization toward adult roles seemed to influence their views of values relating to future events.

Relationships between sexual attitudes and behavior among adolescents were studied in data collected by self-administered questionnaires from approximately 3,500 junior and senior high school students attending four inner-city schools during 1981-1982. An analysis of the results by sex, race and age found that 83 percent of sexually experienced adolescents cite a best age for first intercourse that is older than the age at which they themselves experienced that event, and 43 percent of them report a best age for first coitus older than their current age. In addition, 88 percent of young women who have had a baby say the best age at which to have a first birth is older than the age at which they first became mothers. Thirty-nine percent of the women and 32 percent of the men say that they believe premarital sex is wrong. Among those who are virgins, the proportions are much higher. However, even among those who have had intercourse, approximately 25 percent of both sexes say they believe sex before marriage is wrong. Women desire stronger relationships before having intercourse than do men, and women claim to have had a stronger relationship with their last sexual partner. Very few teenagers believe neither partner is responsible for pregnancy prevention, which tends to be viewed as a joint responsibility. Those who see it as a shared responsibility are slightly more likely than those who assign the responsibility to one or the other partner to have used a method at last intercourse, and they are considerably more likely to have used a method than are those who believe contraception is neither partner's responsibility.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There has been a long-standing belief that children and parents require preparation and support in the event of hospitalization. Programs that prepare children for hospitalization are designed to inform the child about what will happen and to familiarize the child with his environment. Although these programs provide only general information, they do impact upon the way a child can cope with specific procedures. Even though it is unclear why information is beneficial, there are reported studies that demonstrate its effectiveness. Information about health care procedures is provided through modelling, procedural, and sensory information, and stress-point nursing. While some of these techniques, as described in the literature, may be too extensive for every nurse to fully carry out with every child, the principles can be incorporated by all nurses. The studies cited give some indication that early preparation is beneficial for older children (7 years old and older), but that younger children benefit from preparation immediately prior to the procedure. Children with a previous hospital experience are thought to respond to information on rehospitalization in a unique way. Furthermore, while children may demonstrate anxiety initially when given certain kinds of information, stress-point nursing (repeated information and support) has been reported to be particularly beneficial. The research findings tend to oppose the notions that young children should not receive information, that all children benefit equally from the same type and timing of preparation, that a child who has had a previous experience requires less preparation, and that a one-time pre-admission program provides adequate preparation. The provision of emotional support and the use of play as a means of helping children cope with procedures is strongly supported in the anecdotal and theoretical literature. However, there are few controlled studies that have specifically analyzed the effects of play programs in pediatric settings. Studies done examining techniques that assist the child in gaining a sense of control suggest that a child can benefit from being helped to gain a sense of mastery over a stressful event. Progressive muscle relaxation and desensitization have been shown to reduce anxiety and discomfort during health care procedures. The effectiveness of these techniques, who can best use them, and when they should be used are questions still to be answered. The varying degrees of methodological rigor in present studies point to a need for further research. One cannot definitively state how closely nursing practice reflects available research findings as outlined in this article.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Although children's economic concepts and young people's experience of unemployment are being increasingly investigated, as yet there is very little work on adolescents' understanding of unemployment. The research that has been carried out in this area is not developmental research. In this study children's ideas about unemployment were investigated by interviewing 40 children from two age groups (11 to 12 years and 15 to 16 years). The children were asked to define unemployment, to indicate if and how unemployed people differed from those with a job and asked if they would like to be unemployed. The results showed that, with age, understanding of unemployment became more abstract and more global. Compared with the younger children, the adolescents offered more societal and fatalistic explanations for unemployment, saw the unemployed as fundamentally similar to the employed and regarded the principal undesirable effects of unemployment as social-psychological rather than economic.

An unknown number of American children claim to remember previous lives. In this paper data of 79 such children are analyzed and compared with data from a larger number of cases in India. Few American children of these cases make verifiable statements, and those who do nearly always speak about the lives of deceased members of their own families. In this feature, American cases differ from Indian ones, in which the children usually speak of the lives of deceased persons in another family and often in another community. Indian children also frequently make verifiable statements about the lives of such persons. In some other respects, however, such as the age of first speaking about the previous lives, the content of the statements they make, and related unusual behavior, American subjects closely resemble ones in India. Although many of the American cases may derive from fantasies, a wish-fulfilling motive or obvious gain for the child is not discernible in most of them. Nor do the cases resemble in their form fantasies of imaginary playmates. Some American cases of this type occur in families already believing in reincarnation, but many others do not. In these families the child's statements about a previous life are often puzzling and even alarming to his or her parents. The child is sometimes involved in conflict over the apparent memories with members of his or her family.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Suicide is an increasing problem among adolescents. Developmental concerns and inability to resolve problems stemming from feelings of alienation are often at the core of an adolescent's suicide attempt. Nurses can be instrumental in primary prevention by educating the public about persons at risk for suicide, in helping parents deal more effectively with children's growth, and by supporting programs in the school system and other agencies that help young people communicate with others and resolve problems before they become crises. The nurse can also play an important role in secondary prevention through participation in or referral to hotline services, through intervention in the emergency service, or in community mental health programs or inpatient treatment programs. The psychiatric nurse specialist, in particular, can play a very significant role in the treatment of the adolescent in a suicidal crisis and also in consultation with other nurses and professionals who may assess suicidal risk in young people in the community. Finally, tertiary prevention may be necessary to help families and friends resolve their grief over the loss if a family member or close friend has succeeded at a suicide attempt. Feelings of guilt, anxiety, anger, and depression are usually present in the surviving family members of a successful suicide. They need to be given the opportunity to talk about the events leading up to the suicide, their feelings about the persons involved, especially the lost person, and to ventilate their anger, guilt, and sadness. The rising rate of suicide or suicide attempts among this country's adolescents--the third cause of death among adolescents--cries out for stronger support systems for our young people.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Previous characterizations of children's categorization behavior have expressed differing views concerning the underlying structure of categorical knowledge. Important differences center on the role of specific experienced exemplars versus a generalized, abstracted prototype. In the present investigation, the ability of children and adults to abstract and recognize figural prototypes was examined using a prototype-plus-distortions design. Analysis of adults' performance supports a view of categorical knowledge as composed of a central prototype with limited retention of exemplar-specific information. The effects of prototype abstraction by adults were observed regardless of high or low accuracy constraints imposed during the concept-assessment phase, increased exposure to acquisition stimuli, or increased complexity of the abstraction task. The results obtained with preschool children reveal prototype knowledge in the relaxed-accuracy condition, while demonstrating exemplar-specific information surpassing that of adults when accuracy constraints are imposed. These age-group differences are discussed in terms of differential acquisition strategies adopted by the two groups in approaching categorically related material, which result in the availability of different types of information at the time of concept assessment.

To determine whether infants can abstract invariant face expressions across different persons (i.e., can form face expression categories), groups of 18-, 24-, and 30-week-old infants (18 boys and 18 girls per group) were habituated by the infant control procedure to photographs of 4 different female faces all wearing an identical expression (happy or surprise). In an immediately following test phase, categorization was inferred from greater generalization of habituation (less recovery of fixation) to 2 new female faces in the familiarized expression than to the same new faces in the altered (novel) expression. To rule out the possibility that generalization at test might be due to failure to discriminate the new persons, control groups of 18 boys and 18 girls at each age saw the same test faces following repeated presentations of only 1 of the 4 habituation faces. The results indicated that not until 30 weeks could infants differentiate happy and surprise expressions on a categorical basis. At 24 weeks they could distinguish a surprise expression following habituation to happy faces, but could not do the reverse. At 18 weeks they could do neither. Overall, the performance of girls was superior to that of boys. The findings are consistent with recent evidence suggesting that the ability to extract invariant configural information relative to the human face does not emerge until about 7 months of age.

Schoolchildren of 1--10-th grades solved the tasks with one and the same elementary scheme, in which the appearance of the given signal followed one action out of 14 possible ones. When the task was presented in the form of buttons and lamps its solution did not improve with age. Moreover, 4--5-th grades' pupils solved it quicker than the senior ones. When the scheme consisted of symbols the task was solved better with age. Junior schoolchildren solved it much slower than that with buttons and lamps. This difference diminished with age, and senior pupils solved both types of tasks equally. The obtained data result from formation in the ontogenesis of abstract-logic connections with different degree of generalization, reflecting the relations between the stimuli in the experimental environment.

Twenty neurologists were asked to judge a number of plantar responses on film. Each film was preceded by a slide with a fictitious abstract of history and examination (minus the plantar reflex). The main part of the presentation only served to disguise the fact that two films, both showing equivocal toe movements, were presented twice at the same sitting, but with opposing information as to the probability of a Babinski sign. Interpretation of these identical pictures differed significantly (P less than 0.01), conforming to the information given. Thirty other neurologists who rated the films without previous data showed no such change of opinion.

The performances of two groups of patients, one aphasic and one non-aphasic, with severe head injuries, and a control group were compared on tests of: auditory-verbal memory span, rote learning, learning of unrelated words, concrete and abstract, and substance recall. The non-aphasics scored significantly lower than the controls in all tests but substance recall (immediate) and the aphasics did so in all tests. The aphasics were significantly worse on rote learning and learning of unrelated words than patients without aphasia.

I. General conception. The author contends that the constitution of science requires the completion of two different tasks: a) a negative-critical one, i.e. the clearing of the theoretical field through expurgating all pre-scientific ideologies jeopardizing the growth of scientific concepts; and b) a positive-constructive one, or the actual building up of a science through the production of the formal-abstract object, using ontically indeterminate raw material. Those tasks have characteristics that differ from the formal and factic-natural sciences to the social sciences. The reasons for the differences are: a) the former two have established objects, whereas the latter ones have their objects in the process of undergoing constitution, and thus possessing and oscillating ambiguity; b) the former two sciences have specific methods related to their specific objects, whereas the latter ones have a host of methods, all of them advocating scientific status; c) the former two sciences integrate their concepts into systems so as to constitute the unity of their meaning, whereas the latter ones lack a systematic integration. The consequence is that sciences already constituted (formal and factic-natural sciences) have, by the same token, established the co-implication of both moments (negative-critical and positive-constructive), to the extent that they are in the midst of universes admitting some law-system. Social sciences, on the contrary, set a double register of problems: a) "in-themselves", as they suppose the opening of a new way to approach the object; and b) "for-themselves", as long as that opening is performed at the expense of pre-scientific ideologies that bar the developments to be done "in-themselves". Furthermore, the double task is not accomplished in the same fashion in logic-formal sciences and factic-natural ones, both groups having an apodictic adequation (absolute in the first group, relative in the second one) between the context of discovery and the context of justification, be it formal or experimental, whereas in social sciences there is no such adequation, as they are still searching and trying to establish the mutually foundating relationship between both contexts. II. The epistemological obstacle in Psychology. Psychology, belonging to the general class of social sciences, is subject to two kinds of epistemological obstacles: a) those stemming from "common sense", born and nourished in the naïve, day-to-day experience, and being used as a general canon for usual as well as entirely new situations; they reach the status of a pre-critical "knowing", based solely on beliefs, and advocating to provide the grounds for our opinion on singular and general subjects; and b) those stemming from the "speculative discourse", understood as a system of notions encircling themselves and pretending to have an analogical reference to real objects, when analogy only actualizes objects that are absent...

Having visited the places of prehistoric cult and cave paintings of the Franco-Cantabrian region, central Sahara, Monte Bego and Val Camonica as well as Switzerland and Austria, the author attempts to outline a chronological profile of the occidental prehistoric art. The evolution is marked by a progressive extension of the mental horizon and of the ability to abstract, the emergence of a more analytical and composed way of thinking, the development of an anesthetic representation power which no doubt were the basis of the invention of writing.

With 2.5 to 5.5 hours of tutoring, eight second-grade inner-city school children with clear reading disability were taught to read English material written as 30 different Chinese characters. This accomplishment eliminates certain general interpretations of dyslexia, for example, as a visual-auditory memory deficit. The success of this program can be attributed to the novelty of the Chinese orthography and to the fact that Chinese characters map into speech at the level of words rather than of phonemes. It is proposed that much reading disability can be accounted for in terms of the highly abstract nature of the phoneme (the critical unit of speech in alphabetic systems) and that an intermediate unit, such as the syllable, might well be used to introduce reading.

