This study tested predictions from Processing Mode Theory, Self-Distancing Theory, and the Construal Matching Hypothesis by manipulating processing mode (abstract vs. concrete), self-perspective (self-distanced vs. self-immersed), and the construal level of emotion (high-level vs. low-level) to examine their effects on negative emotional reactivity. A total of 247 emerging adults were randomly assigned to one of eight experimental conditions, where they recalled either low-level or high-level negative emotional experiences. Participants visualised these events from either a self-immersed or self-distanced perspective and then wrote essays focusing on either the abstract or concrete aspects of the events. Emotional reactivity was assessed both before and after these interventions to evaluate the effects of the manipulations. Results indicated that abstract processing significantly reduced negative emotional reactivity, regardless of self-perspective and construal level. No significant interaction effects were observed between self-perspective and processing mode, nor between processing mode and the construal level of emotion. These findings suggest that transitioning to a reflective abstract processing mode facilitates emotion regulation independently of psychological distance or the nature of the negative emotion. Implications for theories of self-reflection and directions for future research, including distinctions between adaptive and maladaptive reflection, are discussed.

Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) is one of the most frequent, severe, mental conditions and is associated with a serious burden of disease. Treatment for patients with BPD involves structured psychotherapy. In addition and in order to improve access to care, psychiatric treatments are available. So far, it remains unclear if brief psychiatric intervention according to Good Psychiatric Management (GPM) produces a reliable effect on a variety of clinical outcomes. The assessment of mechanisms of change contributes to focus the treatment on the essential ingredients of change. The current study aims to demonstrate the emotional processing as a mechanism of change, assessed in an ecologically valid experimental context, of brief GPM. The present two-arm randomized controlled study aims at testing the effects (i.e., reduction in borderline symptoms) and emotional processing as mechanism of change of a brief psychiatric treatment (10 sessions over 4 months), compared with treatment as usual. Participants are N = 76 patients with BPD who are either randomized to a 4 month GPM or a 4 month TAU without any BPD-specific content. All patients undergo assessments of borderline symptoms using ZAN-BPD and experiential enactment for assessment of emotional processing, at intake, 2 months and 4 months (discharge). The effect of a brief version of GPM is not different from the effect of TAU on the total score of the ZAN-BPD at 4 month (d = 0.04). At the level of the secondary effects, GPM is more effective in reducing relationship problems on the ZAN-BPD sub-scale (F(1, 61) = 5.53; p = .022, d = 0.52), and in reducing impulsivity and social problems, and it increases treatment retention. Change in emotional processing between intake and month 2 mediates the reduction on the ZAN-BPD subscale relationship problems assessed between months 2 and 4, in an ecologically valid experimental context. Overall, brief GPM is not different from TAU in terms of reduction in borderline symptoms, but it may produce reduction in relationship problems between months 2 and 4 into the brief intervention. Change in emotional processing in an experimental context may function as mechanism of change of brief GPM. This study is in line with the top priority of establishing efficacy of brief interventions for BPD and proposes an evidence-based explanation for efficacy. These results should help disseminate brief psychiatric treatments for BPD, which contribute to reduce the societal burden related with BPD. Clinical Trials NCT03717818 (date of registration of Abstract October 24th, 2018). Protocol number 2 from February 9th, 2018.

In individuals with unilateral vestibulopathy (UVP), physical activity (PA) is recommended to stimulate central vestibular compensation. However, the presence of fear avoidance beliefs might negatively influence PA. The objectives of this study were to investigate the relationship between fear avoidance beliefs and PA and to compare PA levels between individuals with UVP in an acute/subacute vs chronic phase. In this cross-sectional study, PA was measured using a triaxial accelerometer. Fear avoidance beliefs were quantified using the Vestibular Activities Avoidance Instrument. The correlation between fear avoidance beliefs and PA was evaluated using regression analyses, with other potential influencing factors also considered. A total of 102 participants were included. The average age was 56.1 (SD 15.2) years, and 57.8% were male. Participants with chronic UVP presented with shorter sedentary time (4,591 vs 5129 min/wk; P = 0.004), longer standing time (1443 vs 1165 min/wk; P = 0.025), higher vigorous PA (187 vs 107 min/wk; P = 0.005), and higher total PA (773 vs 623 min/wk; P = 0.003) compared to participants with acute/subacute UVP. In participants with acute/subacute UVP, variability in total PA was explained up to 54.7% by fear avoidance beliefs, etiology of the UVP, and gender (R2 = 0.547, F4,45 = 13.6, P < 0.001). In participants with chronic UVP, fear avoidance beliefs explained 4.1% of the variability in total PA (R2 = 0.041, F1,49 = 2.086, P = 0.155). In acute/subacute UVP, assessing fear avoidance beliefs helps to understand physical inactivity. In chronic UVP, no significant association between fear avoidance beliefs and PA was observed. for more insights from the authors (see the video, Supplemental Digital Content, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A488).

The gut microbiome modulates the effects of diet on host health, but it remains unclear which specific foods and microbial features interact to influence risk of depression. To understand this interplay, we leveraged decades of dietary and depression data from a longitudinal cohort of women (n = 32,427), along with fecal metagenomics and plasma metabolomics from a substudy (n = 207) nested in this cohort, as well as an independent validation cohort of men (n = 307). We report that citrus intake and its components are prospectively associated with a lower risk of depression and altered abundance of 15 gut microbial species, including enriched Faecalibacterium prausnitzii. In turn, we found a lower abundance of F. prausnitzii and its metabolic pathway, S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) cycle I in participants with depression. To explore causality, we found that lower SAM production by F. prausnitzii may decrease intestinal monoamine oxidase A gene expression implicated in serotonin and dopamine synthesis. These data underscore the role of diet in the prevention of depression and offer a plausible explanation for how the intestinal microbiome modulates the influence of citrus on mental health. Video Abstract.

Emotion recognition using electroencephalogram (EEG) has become a research hotspot in the field of human-computer interaction, how to sufficiently learn complex spatial-temporal representations of emotional EEG data and obtain explainable model prediction results are still great challenges. In this study, a novel hierarchical and explainable attention network ST-SHAP which combines the Swin Transformer (ST) and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) technique is proposed for automatic emotional EEG classification. Firstly, a 3D spatial-temporal feature of emotional EEG data is generated via frequency band filtering, temporal segmentation, spatial mapping, and interpolation to fully preserve important spatial-temporal-frequency characteristics. Secondly, a hierarchical attention network is devised to sufficiently learn an abstract spatial-temporal representation of emotional EEG and perform classification. Concretely, in this decoding model, the W-MSA module is used for modeling correlations within local windows, the SW-MSA module allows for information interactions between different local windows, and the patch merging module further facilitates local-to-global multiscale modeling. Finally, the SHAP method is utilized to discover important brain regions for emotion processing and improve the explainability of the Swin Transformer model. Two benchmark datasets, namely SEED and DREAMER, are used for classification performance evaluation. In the subject-dependent experiments, for SEED dataset, ST-SHAP achieves an average accuracy of 97.18%, while for DREAMER dataset, the average accuracy is 96.06% and 95.98% on arousal and valence dimension respectively. In addition, important brain regions that conform to prior knowledge of neurophysiology are discovered via a data-driven approach for both datasets. In terms of subject-dependent and subject-independent emotional EEG decoding accuracies, our method outperforms several closely related existing methods. These experimental results fully prove the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed algorithm.

The subjective experiences of individuals living with diabetes is commonly assessed with patient-reported outcomes (PROs; eg, depression symptoms, wellbeing, health-related quality of life [HRQOL], and diabetes-related distress). Cluster analyses have identified novel diabetes subtypes differing in phenotypic and metabolic characteristics. We aimed to investigate associations between these subtypes and PROs and whether subtype predicted PROs 5 years later. Baseline (<12 months after a diabetes diagnosis) and 5-year follow-up data were collected from German Diabetes Study (GDS) participants. Multiple regressions were applied to analyse associations between diabetes subtypes and depression symptoms (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale), wellbeing (WHO-5), HRQOL (SF-36), and diabetes-related distress (Problem Areas in Diabetes Scale). Cluster analyses at baseline (n=1391) identified participants with severe autoimmune diabetes (SAID, 417 [30%]), severe insulin-deficient diabetes (SIDD, 33 [2%]), severe insulin-resistant diabetes (SIRD, 150 [11%]), mild obesity-related diabetes (MOD, 354 [25%]), and mild age-related diabetes (MARD, 437 [31%]). At baseline, multiple regression analyses showed that participants with SIRD had higher depression symptoms than participants with MARD and lower physical HRQOL than all other subtypes. Participants with SAID reported higher depression symptoms and lower mental HRQOL than participants with MARD, higher physical HRQOL than participants with MARD and MOD, and higher diabetes-related distress than most other subtypes. At the 5-year follow-up, clustering predicted no statistically significant changes in PROs after adjustment for multiple testing, whereas descriptive analyses demonstrated that individuals with SIRD were more likely to experience clinically relevant depression symptoms (16% vs 6%) and low wellbeing (31% vs 14%), respectively, than individuals with MARD. Diabetes subtypes already differ in PROs at diabetes diagnosis. Our analyses had limited predictive power during follow-up. However, our findings suggest that clustering could predict future changes in depression symptoms. The GDS was initiated and financed by the German Diabetes Center, which is funded by the German Federal Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture and Science of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, and by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research to the German Center for Diabetes Research. For the German translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) intervention has been widely used to reduce the burden of symptoms in cancer patients, and its effectiveness has been proven. However, the effectiveness of MBSR on depression, anxiety, fatigue, quality of life (QOL), posttraumatic growth (PTG), fear of cancer recurrence (FCR), pain, and sleep in breast cancer patients has not yet been determined. This study aims to determine the role of mindfulness-based stress reduction therapy in patients with breast cancer. The objective was to systematically review the literature to explore the effect of MBSR on anxiety, depression, QOL, PTG, fatigue, FCR, pain, stress and sleep in breast cancer patients. To explore the effect of 8-week versus 6-week MBSR on the 9 indicators. Data were extracted from the original RCT study at the end of the intervention and three months after baseline to explore whether the effects of the intervention were sustained. We conducted searches on PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure from inception to November 2023. Eligible studies included randomized controlled trials of breast cancer patients who received mindfulness stress reduction intervention, reporting outcomes for anxiety, depression, fatigue, QOL, PTG, FCR, pain, stress, and sleep. Two researchers conducted separate reviews of the abstract and full text, extracted data, and independently evaluated the risk of bias using the Cochrane 'Bias Risk Assessment tool'. The meta-analysis utilized Review Manager 5.4 to conduct the study, and the effect size was determined using the standardized mean difference and its corresponding 95% confidence interval. The final analysis included 15 studies with a total of 1937 patients. At the end of the intervention, the interventions with a duration of eight weeks led to a significant reduction in anxiety [SMD=-0.60, 95% CI (-0.78, -0.43), P < 0.00001, I In terms of effects on QOL, anxiety, depression, and fatigue, the 8-week MBSR intervention showed better results than the 6-week MBSR intervention. The intervention of MBSR on PTG was effective, and the effect lasted until 3 months after baseline. Future studies could further identify the most effective intervention components in MBSR. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42023483980.

Depression and anxiety significantly impact the quality of life in individuals with Cushing's disease (CD), which originates from pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs), yet our understanding of the underlying mechanisms is limited. There is substantial evidence linking gut microbes to depression, anxiety, and endocrinology. The gut bacterial phenotype of patients with Cushing's disease was significantly different from that of the control group, and when the mice were treated with fecal bacteria from these patients, both anxiety- and depression-like behavior were significantly increased. However, this effect can be alleviated by supplementing with 2-(14, 15-epoxyeicosatrienoyl) glycerol (2-14,15-EG) which was found at reduced levels in the peripheral blood of mice treated with coprofecal bacteria from Cushing's disease. In this process, the effects of hormone levels and immune factors were not significant. In addition, in an animal model, corticosterone has been observed to affect behavioral changes in mice through gut microbiota composition, clarifying the cause-and-effect relationship between hormones, microbiota, and behavior. Finally, there was no significant difference in gut microbiome composition and its effects on mouse behavior in patients with Cushing's disease with different levels of depression and anxiety. In summary, this research enhances our current understanding of how gut microbes in patients with Cushing's disease contribute to depression and anxiety, offering novel insights for clinical treatment approaches. Video Abstract.

Depression is a mental disorder characterized by a persistent and long-lasting depressive mood. The aim of this study was to analyze the prevalence of depression among university students in China and to provide guidance for psychological intervention and improvement of depression among this specific population. A systematic search was conducted on PubMed, CNKI, Wang-fang database, and Web of Science to identify relevant articles. The articles were cross-sectional studies focusing on the prevalence of depression among university students in China, with clearly defined criteria for diagnosing depression included. Excel was used independently and in duplicate to perform the screening process that involved title, abstract screening, full-text screening, data extraction and assessment of risk of bias. The standards recommended by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) was used to evaluate the quality of observational studies. STATA 11.0 was used to pool the outcomes and perform meta-analysis, including the prevalence of depression among university students and influential factors such as sex, major, region, and the impact of COVID-19. Practical psychological interventions are needed in universities in China. Continuously attention is suggested to be paid to Chinese university students' mental health, especially after public health event such as COVID-19.

The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly affected mental health, leading to an increased prevalence of depression and insomnia. Currently, artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning have thoroughly transformed health care-related mobile apps, offered more effective mental health support, and alleviated the psychological stress that may have emerged during the pandemic. Early reviews outlined the use of mobile apps for dealing with depression and insomnia separately. However, there is now an urgent need for a systematic evaluation of mobile apps that address both depression and insomnia to reveal new applications and research gaps. This study aims to systematically review and evaluate mobile apps targeting depression and insomnia, highlighting their features, effectiveness, and gaps in the current research. We systematically searched PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science for peer-reviewed journal articles published between 2017 and 2023. The inclusion criteria were studies that (1) focused on mobile apps addressing both depression and insomnia, (2) involved young people or adult participants, and (3) provided data on treatment efficacy. Data extraction was independently conducted by 2 reviewers. Title and abstract screening, as well as full-text screening, were completed in duplicate. Data were extracted by a single reviewer and verified by a second reviewer, and risk of bias assessments were completed accordingly. Of the initial 383 studies we found, 365 were excluded after title, abstract screening, and removal of duplicates. Eventually, 18 full-text articles met our criteria and underwent full-text screening. The analysis revealed that mobile apps related to depression and insomnia were primarily utilized for early detection, assessment, and screening (n=5 studies); counseling and psychological support (n=3 studies); and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT; n=10 studies). Among the 10 studies related to depression, our findings showed that chatbots demonstrated significant advantages in improving depression symptoms, a promising development in the field. Additionally, 2 studies evaluated the effectiveness of mobile apps as alternative interventions for depression and sleep, further expanding the potential applications of this technology. The integration of AI and deep learning into mobile apps, particularly chatbots, is a promising avenue for personalized mental health support. Through innovative features, such as early detection, assessment, counseling, and CBT, these apps significantly contribute toward improving sleep quality and addressing depression. The reviewed chatbots leveraged advanced technologies, including natural language processing, machine learning, and generative dialog, to provide intelligent and autonomous interactions. Compared with traditional face-to-face therapies, their feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy highlight their user-friendly, cost-effective, and accessible nature with the aim of enhancing sleep and mental health outcomes.

Transgender and gender diverse (TGD) people in remote areas face challenges accessing health-care services, including mental health care and gender-affirming medical treatment, which can be associated with psychological distress. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of a 4-month TGD-informed e-health intervention to improve psychological distress among TGD people from remote areas in northern Germany. In a randomised controlled trial done at a single centre in Germany, adults (aged ≥18 years) who met criteria for gender incongruence or gender dysphoria and who lived at least 50 km outside of Hamburg in one of the northern German federal states were recruited and randomly assigned (1:1) to i Between May 12, 2020, and May 2, 2022, 177 TGD people were assessed for eligibility, of whom 174 were included in the ITT population (n=90 in the intervention group, n=84 in the control group). Six participants did not provide data for the primary outcome at 4 months, and thus 168 people were included in the analysis population (88 participants in the intervention group and 80 participants in the control group). At 4 months, in the intervention group, the adjusted mean change in BSI-18 from baseline was -0·65 (95% CI -2·25 to 0·96; p=0·43) compared with 2·34 (0·65 to 4·02; p=0·0069) in the control group. Linear model analysis identified a significant difference at 4 months between the groups with regard to change in BSI-18 summary scores from baseline (between-group difference -2·98 [95% CI -5·31 to -0·65]; p=0·012). Adverse events were rare: there were two suicide attempts and one participant was admitted to hospital in the intervention group, and in the control group, there was one case of self-harm and one case of self-harm followed by hospital admission. The intervention was clinically significant in averting worsening psychological distress in service users, outperforming the wait list control group. These findings support the effectiveness of e-health services in TGD health care, specifically for people from remote areas. Innovation Committee at the Federal Joint Committee. For the German translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

The dorsal cornu ammonis 2 (dCA2) region of the hippocampus enables the discrimination of novel from familiar conspecifics. However, the neural bases for more complex social-spatial episodic memories are unknown. Here we report that the spatial and social contents of an aversive social experience require distinct hippocampal regions. While dorsal CA1 (dCA1) pyramidal neurons mediate the memory of an aversive location, dCA2 pyramidal neurons enable the discrimination of threat-associated (CS

Given the rise of digital technology and its assumed impact on psychological well-being, this scoping review systematically examines the literature on Fear of Missing Out (FoMO), which is assumed to play a pivotal role in this dynamic. Although adverse effects of FoMO are commonly assumed, there is still no consensus on the nature of the phenomenon or its relations with psychological well-being and digital technology use, making a scoping review essential. To address this need, we comprehensively assess the conceptualizations of the construct of FoMO and its roles in relation to well-being and digital technology use. We conducted a literature search in PubMed, Ebsco/APA PsycINFO, and Web of Science (period 2013 to July 7, 2023), screening 4121 articles at the title and abstract level and assessing 342 full-text articles for eligibility, ultimately including 106 articles. The review revealed a fragmented FoMO literature, emphasizing the need for conceptual clarity to address critical gaps and inconsistencies in existing research. Consensus exists on FoMO's essence-an unpleasant feeling arising from missed social experiences driven by activity comparison. However, debates include FoMO's associated affective states and conceptual boundaries, as well as the need to disentangle FoMO as a trait or state. The review also underscored FoMO's multifaceted roles in well-being and digital technology use, highlighting the need for causal research, theoretical guidance, and unified terminology to advance understanding in the FoMO literature.

Cognitively reappraising a stressful experience-reinterpreting the situation to blunt its emotional impact-is effective for regulating negative emotions. English speakers have been shown to engage in linguistic distancing when reappraising, spontaneously using words that are more abstract or impersonal. Across two preregistered studies (N = 299), we investigated whether such shifts in language use generalize to Spanish, a language proposed to offer unique tools for expressing psychological distance. Bilingual speakers of Spanish and English and a comparison group of English monolinguals transcribed their thoughts in each of their languages while responding naturally to negative images or reappraising them. Reappraisal shifted markers of psychological distance common to both languages (e.g., reduced use of "I"/"yo"), as well as Spanish-specific markers (e.g., greater use of "estar": "to be" for temporary states). Whether these linguistic shifts reflected successful emotion regulation depended on language experience: in exploratory analyses, the common markers were more strongly linked to reduced negative affect for late than early Spanish learners, and one Spanish-specific marker ("estar") also predicted reduced negative affect for early learners. Our findings suggest that people distance their language in both cross-linguistically shared and language-specific ways when regulating their emotions.

There is established evidence of complicated grief among people with an intellectual disability. This paper describes the process of adapting complicated grief therapy (CGT) for this population. Action research documented the adaptation of CGT. Qualitative methods included analysing meeting notes, reflective interviews with two members of the team involved in adapting the materials, and interviews with six professionals working in disability settings who reviewed the adapted materials. Key processes included adapting the standardised tools that form part of CGT and developing adapted approaches to abstract concepts related to death, dying and bereavement. Key therapeutic components such as imaginal revisiting and the role of significant others required adaptation for implementation with people with intellectual disabilities. The importance of adapting evidence-based therapies for people with intellectual disabilities is emphasised. This research provides an adapted form of an established therapy for piloting with this population.

Due to the geographical distance, work obligations, and parenting responsibilities, it is often difficult for parents to visit the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Limited parent presence might also constrain updates about infant status thus increasing anxiety, which potentially leads to a stronger necessity for visitation. Examine the evidence for use of electronic visit (eVisit) technology for parents of newborns in NICU, for example, do eVisits decrease anxiety and are there other factors that demonstrate effectiveness. Seven databases were used to search for evidence from 1 January 2000 to 13 November 2023. Studies were included with terms related to eHealth, NICU, infant, parent and 41 eligible studies were assessed. Data were extracted by 2 reviewers with a systematic-staged review approach. Eight studies with a total of 1450 cases were included. Results of meta-analysis showed that eVisit technology improved anxiety compared with conventional visitation (MD = - 5.04, 95% CI [-5.92, - 4.17], P < .01) and hospitalization satisfaction (RR = 1.09, 95% CI [1.05, 1.13], P < .01), but the effect was not significant with regard to reduction in infant length of stay (MD = - 1.07, 95% CI [-5.39, 3.25], P = .63). A large sample, high-quality, multi-centered randomized controlled study needs to be conducted to validate the effect of eVisit technology on the psychological state of parents, implications for nursing practice as well as potential newborn affects to improve future ease of use. Available for more insights from the authors. This video shows the concept, current status, significance, and implications for practice and research of eVisit technology.

Refugees encounter multiple psychosocial stressors post-resettlement which increases their risk of developing a mental illness. Loneliness and social isolation are commonly reported in the refugee population and have been demonstrated to be associated with multiple physical and mental health comorbidities in the general population. However, no study to date has systematically reviewed how loneliness and social isolation may affect refugees who have resettled in high-income countries. This systematic review aims to study the prevalence, risk factors, consequences, and interventions for loneliness and social isolation among refugees who have resettled in high-income countries. Systematic searches on five electronic databases yielded 2950 papers, of which 69 were deemed eligible following a double-blinded review by title and abstract then later by full text. From the included studies, it was found that the reported range of prevalence rates of loneliness (15.9-47.7%) and social isolation (9.8-61.2%) were higher than population norms. Risk factors associated with loneliness and social isolation included family separation, acculturative stress, being female or a parent and a current diagnosis of a mental illness. Loneliness and social isolation were found to be associated with depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), psychological distress as well as physical health problems. Only three interventions addressing loneliness and social isolation were identified which demonstrates the importance of integrating social support in refugee psycho-social support programs. In summary, loneliness and social isolation were reported by a large proportion of refugees who have resettled in high-income countries. Whilst certain risk factors were pre-migratory and static, most were post-migratory in nature and were found to adversely affect mental and physical health. Thus, interventions focused on reducing loneliness and social isolation that are guided by the needs of refugee communities are urgently required.

Social isolation and loneliness (SIL) are public health challenges that disproportionally affect individuals who experience structural and socio-economic exclusion. The social and health outcomes of SIL for people with experiences of being unhoused have largely remained unexplored. Yet, there is limited synthesis of literature focused on SIL to appropriately inform policy and targeted social interventions for people with homelessness experience. The aim of this scoping review is to synthesize evidence on SIL among people with lived experience of homelessness and explore how it negatively impacts their wellbeing. We carried out a comprehensive literature search from Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Sociological Abstracts, and Web of Science's Social Sciences Citation Index and Science Citation Index for peer-reviewed studies published between January 1st, 2000 to January 3rd, 2023. Studies went through title, abstract and full-text screening conducted independently by at least two reviewers. Included studies were then analyzed and synthesized to identify the conceptualizations of SIL, measurement tools and approaches, prevalence characterization, and relationship with social and health outcomes. The literature search yielded 5,294 papers after removing duplicate records. Following screening, we retained 27 qualitative studies, 23 quantitative studies and two mixed method studies. SIL was not the primary objective of most of the included articles. The prevalence of SIL among people with homelessness experience varied from 25 to 90% across studies. A range of measurement tools were used to measure SIL making it difficult to compare results across studies. Though the studies reported associations between SIL, health, wellbeing, and substance use, we found substantial gaps in the literature. Most of the quantitative studies were cross-sectional, and only one study used health administrative data to ascertain health outcomes. More studies are needed to better understand SIL among this population and to build evidence for actionable strategies and policies to address its social and health impacts.

The objective of this review was to identify and synthesize the best available evidence on how adult patients experience living with depression-related insomnia, and their experiences related to pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions aimed at improving sleep. Insomnia affects 80% to 90% of patients with depression. The costs of insomnia are considerable for the individual and society alike. To understand the role and consequences of insomnia for an individual with depression and to optimize sleep interventions, an in-depth understanding of patients' experiences is needed. Therefore, this review addresses how adult patients experience living with depression-related insomnia, along with their experiences of pharmacological and non-pharmacological sleep interventions. Studies focusing on adult patients aged 18 years and older with a diagnosis of depression who had experiences with insomnia and pharmacological and/or non-pharmacological sleep interventions were included. All studies with qualitative research findings from inpatient and outpatient populations were considered. The following databases were searched: MEDLINE (PubMed), Embase, CINAHL (EBSCOhost), PsycINFO (ProQuest), Cochrane CENTRAL, SveMed+, Scopus, and Web of Science Core Collection. Google Scholar and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses were searched for eligible dissertations and theses. The searches were conducted on May 3-5, 2022, and updated on June 13-19, 2023. Studies published in English, Danish, German, Norwegian, and Swedish were considered. Databases were searched from their inception to the search date. All studies were screened against the inclusion criteria, and critically and independently appraised by 2 reviewers for methodological quality. Findings were pooled using meta-aggregation, and a ConQual Summary of Findings was created. Ten qualitative studies were included. The studies were conducted in 6 countries and counted a total of 176 participants. In all, 127 findings were extracted and aggregated into 11 categories. From the 11 categories, 3 synthesized findings were developed: i) Disruption of sleep challenges coping with everyday life by depleting both physical and mental resources; ii) Sleep is an escape and a protective factor against suicide; and iii) Choices, support, and personalized interventions from non-pharmacological approaches addressing depression-related insomnia are valued. This review underlined the relationship between depression-related insomnia, its profound impact on individuals' lives, and the value of non-pharmacological sleep interventions to address these issues. Specifically, the review revealed the physical and emotional consequences of insomnia while emphasizing how wakefulness during night hours may exacerbate feelings of loneliness and vulnerability to negative thoughts and suicide. Moreover, it provides an overview of patients' experiences of non-pharmacological approaches to address depression-related insomnia and highlights their diverse treatment experiences and preferences. A Danish-language version of the abstract of this review is available as supplemental digital content: http://links.lww.com/SRX/A64 . PROSPERO CRD42021276048.

Pregnancy-related anxiety significantly impacts maternal and fetal health in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), including those within Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Most studies conducted to evaluate pregnancy-related anxiety in LMICs have utilized scales developed in high-income countries, despite significant variations in pregnancy-related anxiety due to socioeconomic and cultural contexts. This review surveyed existing literature in order to identify which scales have been used to measure pregnancy-related anxiety in SSA. A systematic search was conducted in PubMed, Health and Psychosocial Instruments, and APA PsycNet for relevant studies published in the English language up to March 22, 2023. Eligible studies focused on anxiety in pregnant populations within SSA, using validated scales or tools. Screening followed PRIMSA guidelines, with blinded review at the abstract/title level and subsequent full-text review. Data was extracted and analyzed to identify trends and characteristics of the screening tools used. From 271 articles, 37 met inclusion criteria, identifying 24 different tools used to measure anxiety in pregnant women in SSA. The most common tools were the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (seven uses), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (five uses), and the Self-Reporting Questionnaire 20 (five uses). Seven tools were pregnancy-specific, with only two designed specifically for SSA: the Risk Factor Assessment (RFA), and the 4-Item Screening Tool. Studies were most frequently conducted in South Africa, followed by Tanzania, Ethiopia, Nigeria, and Ghana. This scoping review illustrates that only two tools (the RFA and 4-item Screening Tool) were created to assess pregnancy-related anxiety specifically in SSA. This highlights the need for more culturally sensitive tools tailored to the specific contexts of pregnant populations in SSA.

After participating in this CME activity, the psychiatrist should be better able to:• Describe how to identify and address emotional eating in the primary care setting. Emotional eating (i.e., eating in response to negative emotional states and stress) is a highly prevalent concern within primary care settings. It is associated with myriad health issues such as the experience of overweight or obesity, increased difficulty losing weight and sustaining weight loss, various eating disorders, diabetes, and heart disease. Given the effects of emotional eating on patient health goals regarding weight loss or management, it is imperative to incorporate interventions that address emotional underpinnings alongside traditional, behaviorally based weight-loss treatment. Ensuring that primary care providers, who represent pivotal frontline touch points for patients interested in weight-related treatment, can identify emotional eating is an important first step in supporting these patients' goals. The primary purpose of this paper is to provide background information and practical guidance for addressing emotional eating in the primary care setting. We summarize theorized biological and psychological mechanisms that underlie emotional eating, and review traditional (i.e., psychological) interventions, with special consideration for adapting available treatments for use in primary care contexts.

This paper is devoted to a narrative review of the literature on emotions and academic performance in medicine. The review aims to examine the role emotions play in the academic performance of undergraduate medical students. Eight electronic databases were used to search the literature from 2013 to 2023, including Academic Search Ultimate, British Education Index, CINAHL, Education Abstract, ERIC, Medline, APA Psych Articles and APA Psych Info. Using specific keywords and terms in the databases, 3,285,208 articles were found. After applying the predefined exclusion and inclusion criteria to include only medical students and academic performance as an outcome, 45 articles remained, and two reviewers assessed the quality of the retrieved literature; 17 articles were selected for the narrative synthesis. The findings indicate that depression and anxiety are the most frequently reported variables in the reviewed literature, and they have negative and positive impacts on the academic performance of medical students. The included literature also reported that a high number of medical students experienced test anxiety during their study, which affected their academic performance. Positive emotions lead to positive academic outcomes and vice versa. However, Feelings of shame did not have any effect on the academic performance of medical students. The review suggests a significant relationship between emotions and academic performance among undergraduate medical students. While the evidence may not establish causation, it underscores the importance of considering emotional factors in understanding student performance. However, reliance on cross-sectional studies and self-reported data may introduce recall bias. Future research should concentrate on developing anxiety reduction strategies and enhancing mental well-being to improve academic performance.

Despite the frequency of concern about falling (CAF) and fear of falling (FOF) in multiple sclerosis (MS), there remains a lack of clarity between FOF and CAF, though persons with MS have indicated that CAF and FOF are distinct constructs. Our team previously developed and validated a new questionnaire, the Concern and Fear of Falling Evaluation (CAFFE), to assess these concepts. This study aimed to examine CAF and FOF prevalence, and determine relationships among CAF, FOF, and self-reported motor, cognitive, and psychological function in MS relapsing (RRMS) and progressive (PMS) subtypes. In a single online survey, participants with MS completed questions about CAF and FOF, demographic information, the CAFFE, and self-report measures of motor, cognitive, and psychological function. A total of 912 individuals completed the survey. Persons with PMS reported greater CAF (80.1%) and FOF (59.1%) than those with RRMS (57.0% and 41.6%, respectively). Persons with PMS endorsing FOF (yes/no) reported greater FOF on the CAFFE, greater avoidance behavior, greater walking impairment, and poorer motor function than people with RRMS ( P < 0.001). Self-reported motor function, walking impairment, and avoidance behavior were highly correlated to the CAFFE across the overall sample ( P < 0.001). These findings underscore the disparity between CAF and FOF, emphasize the importance of evaluating CAF and FOF in MS subtypes separately, and highlight both motor and non-motor factors contributing to CAF and FOF. Future work should focus on interventions that incorporate motor, cognitive, and psychological components to address CAF and FOF. for more insights from the authors Supplemental Digital Content available at http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A481 .

To evaluate the reporting quality of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of acupuncture for depression. Systematic searches were performed in PubMed, the Cochrane Library, EMbase, CNKI, Wanfang, SinoMed and VIP Database for RCTs of acupuncture in treatment of depression. The search time was from the establishment of database to December 1, 2023, and the language restriction was Chinese and English. The reporting quality of RCTs of acupuncture for depression was evaluated using the CONSORT statement, the international standardization for trial reporting, STRICTA, the international standard for clinical trial interventions of acupuncture, and SHARE, the guideline and checklist for reporting sham acupuncture controls. According to the CONSORT statement items, the items with the reporting rate less than 50% was accounted for 54.05% of all of the items for Chinese articles, and there were 8 and 1 items with a reporting rate of 0% and 100%, respectively. For the English articles, the items with the reporting rate less than 50% was accounted for 35.14% of all of the items, and there were 3 and 7 items with a reporting rate of 0% and 100%, respectively. The reporting rate of 15 items in Chinese and English articles was greater than 50%, e.g. structured abstract, background and purpose. Based on STRICTA criteria, the reporting rate of either Chinese or English articles was relatively high. The items for Chinese articles with the reporting rate less than 50% was accounted for 23.53% of all of the items, and there were 1 and 4 items with a reporting rate of 0% and 100%, respectively. For English articles, the items with the reporting rate less than 50% was accounted for 11.76% of all of the items, and there was 1 item with a reporting rate of either 0% or 100%. In compliance with SHARE checklist, the reporting rate was low for either Chinese or English articles. The items with the reporting rate less than 50% was accounted for 57.89% of all of the items for Chinese articles, and there were 2 and 0 items with a reporting rate of 0% and 100%, respectively. For English articles, the items with the reporting rate less than 50% was accounted for 52.63% of all of the items, and there was 1 item with a reporting rate of 0% and 100%, respectively. The overall reporting quality of RCTs of acupuncture for depression is low currently. It is urgent to enhance the reporting of the details on sham acupuncture control especially. It is suggested that RCTs should be reported strictly in compliance with the CONSORT statement, STRICTA criteria, and SHARE checklist in the future.

Male reproductive problems under psychological stress were widely studied. Using chronically unpredictable mild stress-treated mice, we found that reduced serum testosterone levels were related to the low level of cholesterol in the Leydig cells. Testosterone deficiency in humans can be caused by depressive symptoms; however, the causes of this deficiency are incompletely understood. This study demonstrates that male mice with depression-like symptoms due to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) show reduced serum testosterone levels and disrupted sexual behaviors. However, the observed testosterone reductions were not caused by apoptosis of Leydig cells. Oil red O staining revealed that lipid droplets were dramatically decreased in Leydig cells, suggesting that defects in cholesterol uptake might be related to testosterone deficiency in depression-like mice. To investigate the potential mechanism, lipid homeostasis was examined by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The results revealed that higher levels of sphingomyelins (SM 8:0;2O/28:1, 18:0;2O/22:2, 33:0;3O, 33:1;2O) were linked to decreased cholesterol levels. Further investigation indicated that testosterone biosynthesis from cholesterol in Leydig cells was impaired by the downregulation of Ldlr, Srb1, Lhr, and P450scc. Elevated levels of interferon signaling-associated pathways in depression-like mice testes may also contribute to decreased testosterone levels. Taken together, these findings provide a novel understanding of male reproductive problems under psychological stress and suggest that cholesterol uptake might be a causal factor in reduced testosterone production in depression-like mice.

Empathy is a fundamental social ability that allows humans to infer others' emotions and intentions. Empathy is thought to be rooted in bodily sensations coming from the autonomic nervous system. In parallel, the functionality and perceptions coming from the autonomic nervous system could be improved by practicing activities that involve mind-body interactions, such as meditation. Furthermore, perceptions from the autonomic nervous system are thought to be important in the embodiment of abstract concepts. Consequently, in the current study, we collected data online from 581 participants and explored the associations between levels of empathy and (1) the practice of meditation, music, and sports; (2) the impact of self-report measures on bodily awareness and reactivity; and (3) the embodiment of abstract concepts in interoception. In line with previous studies, Meditators were found to have higher empathy scores than Non-Meditators. In addition, lower levels of autonomic reactivity in organs above the diaphragm were associated with higher empathy. Finally, we also observed that empathy was positively associated with interoceptive components of abstract concepts in those participants with high autonomic reactivity. Taken together, the results suggest that meditation practice and having low autonomic reactivity are associated with empathy, arguably through the downregulation of autonomic responses. Implications for mind-body interaction in meditation and its role in promoting empathy are discussed.

Empirical findings suggested that anhedonia, a reduced capability to access pleasure and a core symptom in both schizophrenia and the major depressive disorder, can be present in people with high levels of social anhedonia and people with subsyndromal depression. Few studies have adopted a multidimensional framework to investigate anhedonia in these subclinical samples. We recruited 35 participants with high social anhedonia (SA), 53 participants with subsyndromal depression (SD), 20 participants with co-occurrence of both traits (CO), and 47 participants with low levels of both traits (CN) to complete a self-report questionnaire capturing the pleasure experience, and the Monetary Incentives Delay (MID) Task and the Social Incentives Delay (SID) Task capturing the motivation of reward. Results indicated that people with SA, SD and CO exhibited lower abstract anticipatory pleasure compared to CN. Moreover, people with SD and CO exhibited specific impairment in response to social incentives. Together, our findings characterized the multidimensional features of anhedonia performances of subclinical samples with SA, SD and CO, which may contribute to the formulation of early identification of at-risk groups.

Parents of children diagnosed with severe-to-profound sensorineural hearing loss may experience a range of emotions owing to a lack of knowledge and experience in dealing with such children. However, most audiology clinics only attend to children with deaf and hard of hearing (DHH) and not their parents. Thus, parents' emotional and support needs are frequently excluded from the intervention sessions, making their own needs invisible. This study aimed to identify academic and clinical instruments used for assessing parental emotional status (PES) and ecological support systems (ESS) in early intervention and determine the factors affecting PES and ESS among parents of DHH children undergoing cochlear implantation. This scoping review followed the rigorous methodological framework; searched Medline (via OVID and EMBSCO), Scopus, and Web of Science; and selected studies relevant to validated instruments used to evaluate the PES and ESS among parents of DHH children below 6 years old. Before selecting and reviewing relevant articles, two reviewers independently assessed article titles and abstracts from the data sources. Two reviewers verified half of the first reviewer's extracted data. Overall, 3060 articles were retrieved from the database search, and 139 were selected for full-text review following title and abstract reviews. Ultimately, this study included 22 articles. Among them, 23 and 12 validated instruments, most of which are generic measures, were used for assessing PES and ESS, respectively. Three condition-specific instruments were identified and designed to be administered following cochlear implantation surgery. This study revealed that healthcare professionals who interact with parents of DHH children lack the necessary instruments, particularly for parents of children undergoing cochlear implantation surgery. Therefore, it is necessary to develop condition-specific instruments for parents who consider cochlear implantation for their children.

Stronger theory on the nature of human well-being is needed, especially as well-being indicators are increasingly utilized in policy contexts. Building on Erik Allardt, who argued that a theory of well-being is, in essence, a theory of human nature, I propose four modes of existence each capturing one dimension central to human well-being:  Well-being is something we all value individually, and it is also a key political goal. Accordingly, how we define and measure well-being influences what physicians, managers, policy-makers, politicians, and international organizations aim to improve through their work. Better theories of well-being make better measurement of well-being possible, which makes possible more effective and evidence-based advancement of human well-being. In this spirit, the present article argues that there are four fundamental dimensions to human well-being: 

Employment provides economic security, a social network, and is important for self-identity. A review published by van der Noordt and colleagues in 2014 showed that employment was beneficial for depression and general mental health. However, an updated synthesis including research published in the last decade is lacking. In the planned review, we aim to update, critically assess, and synthesise the current evidence of the association between paid employment (excluding precarious employment) and common mental health outcomes (depression, anxiety, and psychological distress) among the working age population in the labour force. We will follow recommended guidelines for conducting and reporting systematic reviews. Four electronic databases (MEDLINE, Embase, APA PsycINFO, and Web of Science) will be searched from 2012, using appropriate MeSH terms and text words related to our inclusion criteria. We will screen the records against predefined eligibility criteria, first by title and abstract using the priority screening function in EPPI-Reviewer, before proceeding to full-text screening. Only studies investigating the longitudinal relationship between employment and common mental health outcomes will be included. We will search for grey literature in OpenAlex and conduct backward and forward citation searches of included studies. The methodological quality of the included studies will be assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool (RoB 2), Risk Of Bias In Non-randomised Studies of Interventions (ROBINS-I), or the Newcastle-Ottawa scale (NOS). We will conduct a narrative review and, if possible following pre-set criteria, conduct random-effects meta-analyses to estimate the pooled effect of employment on depression, anxiety, and psychological distress, across the included studies. An updated review of the association between non-precarious employment and mental health outcomes is needed. In the planned review, we will assess the quality of the included studies and synthesise the results across studies to make them easily accessible to policy makers and researchers. The results from the review can be used to aid in policy decisions and guide future research priorities. PROSPERO CRD42023405919.

The literature indicates an increasing interest in the mental health of refugees (R) and asylum seekers (AS) - particularly how it could be affected by previous exposure to trauma and violence - but less has been written about the issues they are forced to face during the post-migration period and how these also can affect mental health. Research shows that the mental health of R/AS is highly influenced by their post-migration conditions and may deteriorate due to post-migration social health-related determinants; in addition, a lack of language skills, discrimination, separation from family, poverty, and other stressors can contribute to social isolation. The difficulty in asking for help in case of psychological distress and, consequently, in accessing care, contributes to the worsening of their clinical condition. The primary purpose of this study is to identify and provide a review of the clinical tools used to screen migrants (R/AS) at risk of developing psychological distress, identifying post-migration difficulties. We searched studies in PubMed, Embase, Scopus, Cochrane (Central), and Cinahl (ultimate) with the last search on 14 April 2023, using a combination of keywords and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). Our systematic search identified 1,878 records. After removing duplicates, we screened 1,238 records by title and abstract, retaining 97 for full text review. Of these, 68 met full eligibility criteria (1995-2023). A total of 30 social scales have been identified, as well as structured or semi-structured questionnaires and interviews. Translated into multiple languages, the tools can be self-administered or administered by trained professionals. PMLD is known for its effectiveness in evaluating the post-migration period and predicting mental health issues. Considering the limited number of studies and, consequently, the limited number of tools found, it can be inferred that not enough attention is given to post-migration in the broader sense.

Emotional problems in adolescents living in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) remain largely unaddressed; key reasons include a scarcity of trained mental health professionals and unavailability of evidence-based, scalable psychological interventions. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of a non-specialist-delivered, group psychological intervention to reduce psychosocial distress in school-going adolescents in Pakistan. In a two-arm, single-blind, cluster randomised controlled trial, eligible public school clusters from a rural subdistrict of Gujar Khan, Rawalpindi, Pakistan, were randomised (1:1, stratified by sex) using permuted block randomisation into intervention (n=20) and wait-list control (n=20) groups. Adolescents aged 13-15 years who provided informed assent and caregivers' consent were screened for psychosocial distress using the youth-reported Pediatric Symptoms Checklist (PSC; total psychosocial distress scores from 0 to 70), and those scoring 28 or more and their caregivers were enrolled into the trial. Adolescents in the intervention group received seven weekly group sessions and their caregivers received three biweekly group sessions in school settings from trained non-specialists. The primary outcome was change from baseline in the total PSC scores at 3 months post-intervention. The trial was registered prospectively with the International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number registry, ISRCTN17755448. From the 40 school clusters that were included, 282 adolescents in the intervention group and 284 adolescents in the wait-list control group were enrolled between Nov 2 and Nov 30, 2021. At 3 months, adolescents in the intervention group had significantly lower mean total score on the PSC compared with adolescents in the control group (mean difference in change from baseline 3·48 [95% CI 1·66-5·29], p=0·0002, effect size 0·38 [95% CI 0·18-0·57]; adjusted mean difference 3·26 (95% CI 1·46-5·06], p=0·0004, effect size 0·35 (0·16-0·55). No adverse events were reported in either group. The group psychological intervention most likely represents a feasible and effective option for adolescents with psychosocial distress in school settings. UK Medical Research Council, Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office, Department of Health and Social Care. For the Urdu translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To examine the concept of self-esteem among African American and Latinx adolescents with overweight and/or obesity and depressive symptoms in the United States. Using key terms in CINAHL, PubMed, and PsycINFO databases, an initial search yielded 371 articles; after examining title, abstract, and full text, 33 articles remained. The concept of adolescent self-esteem was analyzed using Rodger's evolutionary method. Several antecedents of self-esteem in this context were identified, including bullying, negative portrayal in the media, stressors and hassles, low socioeconomic status, dieting, and family dietary influences. Attributes identified were body image and misperception, body image dissatisfaction, diminished social status, and isolation. Consequences included stigma, somatic complaints, decreased earnings over a lifetime, decreased quality of life, lower educational attainment over a lifetime, and increased substance use. Increased self-esteem, increased number of friends, and in-depth friendships were associated with a lower risk of being overweight or obese. Adolescent self-esteem varied based on gender, racial and ethnic group, and changed over time in the African American population but remained static in the Latinx population. [

Harlow's seminal work on the nature of attachment focused on the importance of warm, responsive, and loving relationships in children's healthy development. While the need for love and care is arguably universal, the ways in which these emotions are expressed can vary across cultural contexts. We examined how Chinese American parents' expressions of love were associated with children's attachment security. A total of 110 Chinese American immigrant parent-child dyads (children 7-11 years old, 49% girls) participated in 3-min conversations in which parents were instructed to communicate love and care. Proposition-level analyses in speech (total 8825 propositions) identified three types of affection: training (guan and chiao shun); relational affection (qin); and validation (acceptance and encouragement of child's own expression of emotion, thoughts, and behaviors). Higher training was observed in parents with lower American orientation and lower income. Higher relational affection was observed in parents with lower income. Higher validation was observed in parents with higher income. Using path analyses, training and validation were found to be positively associated with children's attachment security beyond parenting styles. Effects of parents' relational affection were moderated by children's American orientation. Results demonstrate how immigrant parents draw on multiple cultural scripts to express love and care. These findings expand traditional concepts of parental love in immigrant families and illustrate how bicultural expressions of love can shape attachment security in middle childhood. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/HqUfIDxkFsE RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Analyses of parent-child discussions identified three parental affection styles (i.e., training, relational affection, and validation) as expressions of love and care in Chinese American immigrant families. Training and validation were positively associated with children's attachment security. Relational affection was associated with lower attachment security for children with higher American cultural orientation, suggesting the effects of parent-child expressions of love are shaped by acculturation.

Doctors and nurses suffer different mental health conditions following traumatic incidents. We systematically synthesized existing evidence on the prevalence of anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and their associated risk factors among doctors and nurses following mass casualty incidents (MCIs). Systematic review. Seven databases were searched (2010-2022) with peer-reviewed articles in English using the predefined keywords. Two reviewers screened the titles, abstracts, and full texts using the eligibility criteria and extracted data independently. We used the National Institutes of Health Quality Assessment Tools (NIH-QAT) and the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme checklist (CASP) to measure the quality appraisal of the included studies. A total of 5170 articles were retrieved, and 2512 articles were assessed by title and abstract (53 were eligible for full-text review). Finally, we included 19 studies. Most were assessed as of fair quality with a considerable risk of bias. PTSD was the highest-reported mental health condition. Nurses reported higher mental conditions, particularly PTSD. Two sets of risk factors (personal and workplace) are associated with anxiety, depression, and PTSD were found. MCIs have a significant impact on the mental health outcomes of emergency health workers. Preventive measures should be designed considering the high-risk group, personal, and organizational risk factors of mental health outcomes.

Patients with myocardial infarction (MI) frequently experience a heightened incidence of depression, thereby increasing the risk of adverse cardiovascular events. Consequently, early detection and intervention in depressive symptoms among patients with MI are imperative. Shexiang Baoxin Pills (SBP), a Chinese patent medicine employed for the treatment of MI, exhibits diverse mechanisms targeting this condition. Nevertheless, its therapeutic efficacy on postmyocardial infarction depressive symptoms remains unclear. The aim of this study is to investigate the effectiveness and mechanism of SBP in managing depression during acute myocardial infarction (AMI). A rat model combining MI and depression was established, and the rats were randomly divided into four groups: the model (MOD) group, SBP group, Fluoxetine (FLX) group, and Sham group. After 28 days of drug intervention, cardiac function was assessed using echocardiography while behavior was evaluated through sucrose preference test (SPT), forced swimming test (FST), and open-field test (OFT). Additionally, levels of inflammatory factors in serum and hippocampus were measured along with NLRP3 inflammasome-related protein expression via Western blotting and immunofluorescence. SBP can enhance cardiac function in rats with AMI and depression, while significantly ameliorating depressive-like behavior. Compared to the Sham group, levels of IL-1β, IL-18, TNF-α, and other inflammatory factors were markedly elevated in the MOD group. However, expressions of these inflammatory factors were reduced to varying degrees following treatment with SBP or FLX. Analysis of NLRP3 inflammasome-related proteins in the hippocampus revealed a significant upregulation of IL-1β, IL-18, NLRP3, ASC, caspase-1, and GSDMD in the MOD group; conversely, these measures were significantly attenuated after SBP intervention. We have observed a significant amelioration in depression-like behavior upon SBP administration during the treatment of AMI, suggesting that this effect may be attributed to the inhibition of NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis. (The main findings are summarized in the graphical abstract in the supplementary file.).

The objective of the scoping review was to explore the evidence and describe what is known about perinatal bereavement care guidelines provided within health care facilities prior to discharge. Additionally, the review sought to identify what is known about parents' mental health outcomes, and map these outcomes to the characteristics of the bereavement care guidelines. Perinatal loss poses a serious risk of emotional trauma and mental health sequelae. Conflicting evidence for international bereavement care guidelines and inconsistent implementation, a lack of experimental studies, and older syntheses with a limited focus or population made synthesis complex. Therefore, a scoping review was undertaken to determine the breadth and depth of the existing literature on this topic. Sources pertaining to bereavement care guidelines used in health care facilities immediately after perinatal loss (miscarriage, stillbirth, or neonatal death) and parents' mental health outcomes were included. Sources pertaining to family members other than parents, perinatal loss occurring outside of a health care facility, and physical care guidelines were excluded. The review was conducted using JBI methodology for scoping reviews. The team considered quantitative and qualitative studies, practice guidelines, case reports, expert opinions, systematic reviews, professional organization websites, and gray literature. CINAHL (EBSCOhost), PsycINFO (EBSCOhost), SocINDEX (EBSCOhost), Cochrane Library, JBI Evidence-based Practice Database (Ovid), Embase, PubMed, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses A&I (ProQuest), Web of Science Core Collection, and Epistemonikos were the major databases searched. OpenGrey, Google Scholar, and organizational websites were also searched. The earliest empirical study publication found (1976) served as the starting date limit. After pilot-testing the screening process, data were extracted, collated, and presented in narrative format as well as in tables and figures. The search was first conducted in September and October 2021, and an updated search was performed on February 9, 2023. The results provide a broad view of bereavement care guidelines to support grieving parents' mental health. The included sources (n=195) were comprised of 28 syntheses, 96 primary studies, and 71 literature review/text and opinion. From the studies that specified the number of participants, 47,598 participants were included. Key characteristics of bereavement care guidelines were categorized as i) making meaning/memories, ii) good communication, iii) shared decision-making, iv) effective emotional and social support, and v) organizational response. Parents' reported mental health outcomes included both negative outcomes, such as depression, anxiety, anger, and helplessness, and positive outcomes, including coping, healing, recovery, and well-being. Conceptually, the characteristics of published guidelines are fairly consistent across settings, with cultural variations in specific components of the guidelines. Despite the exponential increase in research on bereavement care after perinatal loss, there is a gap in research pertaining to certain characteristics of bereavement care guidelines that are accepted as best practice to support parents' mental health outcomes. This review provides support for future research given the trauma and mental health risks following perinatal loss. Policies ensuring consistent and appropriate implementation of bereavement care guidelines are essential to improve parents' mental health outcomes. A Spanish-language version of the abstract of this review is available: http://links.lww.com/SRX/A66 .

Depression is a globally prevalent mental condition, particularly among older adults. Previous research has identified that social networks have a buffering effect on depression. Existing systematic reviews have either limited their research to specific geographic areas or provided evidence from over a decade ago. The vast body of recent literature particularly from the last decade emphasizes the need for a comprehensive review. This systematic review aims to analyze the association of structural aspects of social networks and depression in older adults. The electronic databases APA PsycINFO, ProQuest, PSYINDEX, PubMed, Scopus, SocINDEX, and Web of Science were searched from date of data base inception until 11 July 2023. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they reported on community-dwelling older adults (defined as a mean age of at least 60 years old), had an acceptable definition for depression, referred to the term social network in the abstract, and were published in English. Quality was appraised using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale for cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. Outcome data were extracted independently from each study and analyzed by direction of the relationship, social network domain and cross-sectional or longitudinal study design. In total, 127 studies were included. The study categorizes structural network aspects into seven domains and finds that larger and more diverse networks, along with closer social ties, help mitigate depression. The literature on the relationships between depression and network density, homogeneity, and geographical proximity is scarce and inconclusive. DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Despite inconsistent findings, this review highlights the importance of quantifying complex social relations of older adults. Limitations of this review include publication and language bias as well as the exclusion of qualitative research. Further research should use longitudinal approaches to further investigate the reciprocal relationship between social networks and depression. Following this review, interventions should promote the integration of older adults in larger and more diverse social settings. Other: This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Grant [454899704]. This systematic review was pre-registered. The review-protocol can be accessed at https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/6QDPK .

Perinatal loss is a traumatic event associated with a high risk of parents experiencing negative psychological outcomes. Despite most parents being in regular contact with midwives and nurses during the perinatal period, there is a lack of evidence which hampers these professionals from using effective psychosocial interventions with parents. This study aims to synthesise the existing evidence on the types of psychosocial interventions delivered by midwives/nurses for parents with perinatal bereavement, their impacts on bereaved parents' mental health and the experiences of midwives and nurses in delivering psychosocial interventions for parents experiencing perinatal loss. An integrative review of the literature. Whittemore and Knafl's five-stage integrative review framework guided this review. A systematic literature search of the Medline, PsycINFO, Embase, CINAHL and ASSIA, Cochrane Library and ProQuest databases was conducted from inception to January 2023, with no language or geographical limiters set due to the paucity of research published in this subject area. Two researchers independently screened and reviewed each study's data extraction and methodological quality using the Joanna Briggs Institute and Mixed Method Appraisal Tool. Results were analysed and synthesised using narrative synthesis. A total of 21 studies met the inclusion criteria. From these, we identified nine types of psychosocial interventions for perinatal bereavement that can be delivered by midwives and nurses. The positive impacts of midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions on grief, anxiety, depression posttraumatic stress disorder and other psychosocial outcomes amongst parents experiencing perinatal loss have been demonstrated. In addition, we identified the useful components of these interventions and the experiences of midwives and nurses in delivering psychosocial interventions, thereby highlighting barriers such as lack of knowledge and skills, stressful working environments and inadequate emotional support. Our findings demonstrate that midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions have the potential to improve grief, anxiety, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms and other psychosocial outcomes for parents experiencing perinatal loss. Thus, future research should consider training, workload, time cost and emotional support for midwives/nurses when developing midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions for parents with perinatal loss. CRD42022369032. Midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions have the potential to improve mental health amongst parents experiencing perinatal loss.

The impact of emotional words on the recognition of body expression and the underlying neurodynamic mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study used a classic supraliminal priming paradigm and event related potential (ERP) to investigate the effect of emotion-label words (experiment 1) and emotional verbs (experiment 2) on the recognition of body expressions. The behavioral results revealed that individuals exhibited a higher accuracy in recognizing happy expressions when presented with a happy-label word condition, in contrast to neutral expressions. Furthermore, it was observed that the accuracy of recognizing happy body expressions was reduced when preceded by angry verb priming, compared to happy and neutral priming conditions. Conversely, the accuracy of recognizing angry body expressions was higher in response to angry verb priming than happy and neutral primings. The ERP results showed that, in the recognition of happy body expressions, the P300 amplitude elicited by angry-label words was more positive, while a congruent verb-expression condition elicited more positive P300 amplitude than an incongruent condition in the left hemisphere and midline. However, in the recognition of angry body expressions, the N400 amplitude elicited by a congruent verb-expression condition was smaller than that elicited by an incongruent condition. These results suggest that both abstract emotion-label words and specific emotional verbs influence the recognition of body expressions. In addition, integrating happy semantic context and body expression might occur at the P300 stage, whereas integrating angry semantic context and body expression might occur at the N400 stage. These findings present novel evidence regarding the criticality of emotional context in the recognition of emotions.

Individuals with disabilities are more vulnerable to depression development than the general population. This study sought to map the evidence on current knowledge of depression, intervention strategies, and assessment tools among people with disabilities. This review was conducted following Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review methodology framework. An electronic search was performed on four English databases: PubMed, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, and Web of Science. The original search returned 1802 results, with 1,116 from Web of Science, 626 from PubMed, 25 from Cochrane, and 35 from PsycINFO. After removing duplicates, 786 articles were chosen for the title and abstract screening processes. Finally, 112 full-text publications were deemed eligible, with 41 papers being included in this scoping review for analysis. A large proportion (32; 78.04%) of the studies chosen were cross-sectional, 14 (34.14%) of them reported general disability, 12 (29.26%) used a patient health questionnaire (PHQ-9) to measure depression, and 14 (34.14%) had interventions, including cognitive behavioral therapy, psychological counseling, social support, and physical activity. All interventions successfully reduced the severity of the depression. Cognitive behavioral therapies and psychological counseling were widely used interventions that had a significant impact on reducing depression. More randomized controlled trials are required, and they should focus on individuals with specific disabilities to provide disability-specific care that can improve the quality of life for disabled individuals.

This study delves into expressing primary emotions anger, happiness, sadness, and fear through drawings. Moving beyond the well-researched color-emotion link, it explores under-examined aspects like spatial concepts and drawing styles. Employing Python and OpenCV for objective analysis, we make a breakthrough by converting subjective perceptions into measurable data through 728 digital images from 182 university students. For the prominent color chosen for each emotion, the majority of participants chose red for anger (73.11%), yellow for happiness (17.8%), blue for sadness (51.1%), and black for fear (40.7%). Happiness led with the highest saturation (68.52%) and brightness (75.44%) percentages, while fear recorded the lowest in both categories (47.33% saturation, 48.78% brightness). Fear, however, topped in color fill percentage (35.49%), with happiness at the lowest (25.14%). Tangible imagery prevailed (71.43-83.52%), with abstract styles peaking in fear representations (28.57%). Facial expressions were a common element (41.76-49.45%). The study achieved an 81.3% predictive accuracy for anger, higher than the 71.3% overall average. Future research can build on these results by improving technological methods to quantify more aspects of drawing content. Investigating a more comprehensive array of emotions and examining factors influencing emotional drawing styles will further our understanding of visual-emotional communication.

High levels of mental health problems among young people were reported during the COVID-19 pandemic, but studies of the post-pandemic period are scarce. We assessed mental health problems among Finnish youth before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic using nationwide population-based samples. Our aim was to examine in which direction the heightened levels of adolescent mental health problems have developed after the pandemic. In this national, repeated cross-sectional, population-based study in Finland, we recruited students at lower and upper secondary level (aged 13-20 years) who were taking part in the Finnish School Health Promotion (SHP) survey in 2015-23 (119 681-158 897 participants per round). The SHP is based on total sampling and conducted biennially between March and May. Self-reports covered the seven-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale; the two-item Patient Health Questionnaire for depression; the Mini Social Phobia Inventory for social anxiety; the Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale for mental wellbeing; loneliness; the Sick, Control, One Stone, Fat, Food measure for disordered eating; and suicidality (suicidal ideation, deliberate self-harm, and suicide attempts). Scales were dichotomised using validated cutoffs. Presence of any and comorbid mental health problems was assessed. Logistic (for dichotomised outcomes) and linear (for Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale) mixed effects models were used to analyse the effect of survey year on mental health, controlling for sociodemographic background factors and stratified by gender and school level. Cisgender and transgender youth were compared. Between 2015 and 2023, the SHP study recruited 722 488 students (371 634 [51·6%] girls and 348 857 [48·4%] boys) with a mean age of 15·8 years (SD 1·3) who were either in the eighth and ninth grades of comprehensive school or the first and second years of general and vocational upper secondary schools in Finland. The proportion of participants with generalised anxiety, depression, and social anxiety symptoms above the cutoff increased from pre-COVID-19 levels to 2021 and remained at these higher levels in 2023 among all study groups. Among girls in lower secondary education, prevalence of generalised anxiety, depression, and social anxiety symptoms increased from 2021 to 2023, as did social anxiety among girls in upper secondary education. Among boys, the proportion with social anxiety symptoms decreased between 2021 and 2023. Mental wellbeing scores decreased in all groups between 2021 and 2023, and disordered eating increased in girls, and in boys in lower secondary education. Suicidality increased in girls but not in boys. Loneliness was the only measure to show improvement in all groups from 2021 to 2023. In 2023, 55 895 (72·6%) of 76 994 girls and 22 718 (32·8%) of 69 205 boys reported at least one mental health problem, and 37 250 (48·4%) girls and 9442 (13·6%) boys reported comorbid mental health problems. Among both transfeminine and transmasculine youth, the prevalence of generalised anxiety and depression symptoms decreased from 2021 to 2023, but compared with cisgender youth, the proportions were significantly higher throughout. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on youth mental health could be long lasting. In this study, the substantial change for the better among transgender youth was a positive exception. Providing adequate support and treatment for young people with poor mental health is essential, but solutions to the mental health crisis need to address a wider societal perspective and should be developed in partnership with young people. NordForsk, Research Council of Finland. For the Finnish and Swedish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Social health markers, including marital status, contact frequency, network size, and social support, have been shown to be associated with cognition. However, the mechanisms underlying these associations remain poorly understood. We investigated whether depressive symptoms and inflammation mediated associations between social health and subsequent cognition. In the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA), a nationally representative longitudinal study in England, UK, we sampled 7136 individuals aged 50 years or older living in private households without dementia at baseline or at the intermediate mediator assessment timepoint, who had recorded information on at least one social health marker and potential mediator. We used four-way decomposition to examine to what extent depressive symptoms, C-reactive protein, and fibrinogen mediated associations between social health and subsequent standardised cognition (verbal fluency and delayed and immediate recall), including cognitive change, with slopes derived from multilevel models (12-year slope). We examined whether findings were replicated in the Swedish National Study on Aging and Care in Kungsholmen (SNAC-K), a population-based longitudinal study in Sweden, in a sample of 2604 individuals aged 60 years or older living at home or in institutions in Kungsholmen (central Stockholm) without dementia at baseline or at the intermediate mediator assessment timepoint (6-year slope). Social health exposures were assessed at baseline, potential mediators were assessed at an intermediate timepoint (wave 2 in ELSA and 6-year follow-up in SNAC-K); cognitive outcomes were assessed at a single timepoint (wave 3 in ELSA and 12-year follow-up in SNAC-K), and cognitive change (between waves 3 and 9 in ELSA and between 6-year and 12-year follow-ups in SNAC-K). The study sample included 7136 participants from ELSA, of whom 3962 (55·5%) were women and 6934 (97·2%) were White; the mean baseline age was 63·8 years (SD 9·4). Replication analyses included 2604 participants from SNAC-K, of whom 1604 (61·6%) were women (SNAC-K did not collect ethnicity data); the mean baseline age was 72·3 years (SD 10·1). In ELSA, we found indirect effects via depressive symptoms of network size, positive support, and less negative support on subsequent verbal fluency, and of positive support on subsequent immediate recall (pure indirect effect [PIE] 0·002 [95% CI 0·001-0·003]). Depressive symptoms also partially mediated associations between less negative support and slower decline in immediate recall (PIE 0·001 [0·000-0·002]) and in delayed recall (PIE 0·001 [0·000-0·002]), and between positive support and slower decline in immediate recall (PIE 0·001 [0·000-0·001]). We did not observe mediation by inflammatory biomarkers. Findings of mediation by depressive symptoms in the association between positive support and verbal fluency and between positive support and change in immediate recall were replicated in SNAC-K. The findings of this study provide new insights into mechanisms linking social health with cognition, suggesting that associations between interactional aspects of social health, especially social support, and cognition are partly underpinned by depressive symptoms. EU Joint Programme-Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND) and Alzheimer's Society. For the Swedish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Reports the retraction of "Event-level risk for negative alcohol consequences in emerging adults: The role of affect, motivation, and context" by Jack T. Waddell, Scott E. King, Sarah A. Okey and William R. Corbin (

The organization of abstract concepts reflects different dimensions, grounded in the brain regions coding for the corresponding experience. Normative measures of linguistic stimuli offer noteworthy insights into the organization of conceptual knowledge, but studies differ in the dimensions and classes of concepts considered. Additionally, most of the available information has been collected in English, without considering possible linguistic and cultural differences. Here, we aimed to create a comprehensive Turkish database for abstract concepts (TACO), including rarely investigated classes such as political concepts. We included 503 words-78 concrete (fruits, animals, tools) and 425 abstract (emotions, social, mental states, theoretical, quantity, space, political)-rated by 134 Turkish speakers for familiarity, imageability, age of acquisition, valence, arousal, quantity, space, theoretical, social, mental state, and political dimensions. We calculated dominance and exclusivity, indicating the dimension receiving the highest mean score for each word, and the position of the word along the unidimensional-multidimensional continuum, respectively. A principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted on the semantic dimensions. The results showed that mental state was the dominant dimension for most concepts. Moderate to low levels of exclusivity indicated that the concepts were multidimensional. PCA revealed three components: Component 1 captured the juxtaposition between social/mental state and magnitude polarities, Component 2 highlighted affective components, and Component 3 grouped together political and theoretical dimensions. The introduction of political concepts provided insights into the multidimensional nature of this unexplored class, closely intertwined with the theoretical dimension. TACO constitutes the first comprehensive Turkish database covering several abstract dimensions, paving the way for cross-linguistic and cross-cultural studies of semantic representations.

Theories of semantic organization have historically prioritized investigation of concrete concepts pertaining to inanimate objects and natural kinds. As a result, accounts of the conceptual representation of emotions have almost exclusively focused on their juxtaposition with concrete concepts. The present study aims to fill this gap by deriving a large set of normative feature data for emotion concepts and assessing similarities and differences between the featural representation of emotion, nonemotion abstract, and concrete concepts. We hypothesized that differences between the experience of emotions (e.g., happiness and sadness) and the experience of other abstract concepts (e.g., equality and tyranny), specifically regarding the relative importance of interoceptive states, might drive distinctions in the dimensions along which emotion concepts are represented. We also predicted, based on constructionist views of emotion, that emotion concepts might demonstrate more variability in their representation than concrete and other abstract concepts. Participants listed features which we coded into discrete categories and contrasted the feature distributions across conceptual types. Analyses revealed statistically significant differences in the distribution of features among the category types by condition. We also examined variability in the features generated, finding that, contrary to expectation, emotion concepts were associated with less variability. Our results reflect subtle differences between the structure of emotion concepts and the structure of, not only concrete concepts, but also other abstract concepts. We interpret these findings in the context of our sample, which was restricted to native English speakers, and discuss the importance of validating these findings across speakers of different languages. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2024 APA, all rights reserved).

Power can increase overconfidence and illusory thinking. We investigated whether power is also related to the illusion of explanatory depth (IOED), people's tendency to think they understand the world in more detail, coherence, and depth than they actually do. Abstract thinking was reported as a reason for the IOED, and according to the social distance theory of power, power increases abstract thinking. We linked these literatures and tested construal style as a mediator. Further, predispositions can moderate effects of power and we considered narcissism as a candidate because narcissism leads to overconfidence and may thus increase the IOED especially in combination with high power. In three preregistered studies (total N = 607), we manipulated power or measured feelings of power. We found evidence for the IOED (regarding explanatory knowledge about devices). Power led to general overconfidence but had only a small impact on the IOED. Power and narcissism had a small interactive effect on the IOED. Meta-analytical techniques suggest that previous findings on the construal-style-IOED link show only weak evidential value. Implications refer to research on management, power, and overconfidence.

In a 1987 article, Peter R. Rossi promulgated "The Iron Law of Evaluation and Other Metallic Rules." The Metallic Laws were meant as an informal (and humorous) overstatement of the weakness of contemporary evaluations of social programs. Rossi' s underlying worry was not so much about the state of evaluation technology in the abstract, but, rather, in its inability to advance our broad understanding of social problems and what to do about them---in other words, to make evaluation policy relevant. Rossi attributed the continuing failure to develop successful "large-scale social programs" to the failure to build a strong knowledge base for this kind of "social engineering." The qualities of studies that enable such accumulated learning are variously labeled "external validity," "generalizability," "applicability," or "transferability." This Special Issue includes five papers that seek to explore and apply this understanding.

Patient self-reporting of health-specific information, including symptoms, allows healthcare providers to provide more timely, personalized, and patient-centered care to meet their needs. It is critical to acknowledge that symptom reporting draws from the individual's unique sociocultural background influencing how one perceives health and illness. This scoping review will explore whether racial groups with 4 chronic diseases (cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, cancers, and diabetes) differ in self-reporting of psychoneurophysical (PNP) symptoms. The PNP symptoms of interest include depressive symptoms, fatigue, anxiety, pain, cognitive impairment, sleep impairment, mood impairment, irritability, and shortness of breath. Four databases will be searched by a biomedical librarian: CINAHL Plus (EBSCOhost), Embase (Elsevier), PubMed (NLM), Web of Science: Core Collection (Clarivate Analytics), and limited to publications written in the English language. Two independent reviewers will screen the records' title, abstract, and then full text and extract the data from included articles using Covidence. A third reviewer will be used for resolving disagreements. Included articles must comprise adult patients with at least one of the specified chronic diseases who self-report at least one of the specified PNP symptoms. Studies that used clinician-administered questionnaires or obtained symptom responses from primary caregiver or patient designee will be excluded. Articles on patient-reported functionality or perceived quality of life will also be excluded from the review. Two reviewers will independently extract data (e.g., demographics, study design, racial group, chronic disease, measure/scale used for self-report) from each included article using Covidence and Microsoft Excel for data cleaning and analyses. This scoping review may potentially identify the relevant and practical implications related to clinical decision-making and health outcomes for patients experiencing the psychoneurophysical symptoms included in this study. The authors will present how the results can be utilized in clinical practice, health policy, and research planning. The protocol was registered on Open Science Framework (OSF) at: https://osf.io/ps7aw.

Delving into the complexities of embodied cognition unveils the intertwined influence of mind, body, and environment. The connection of physical activity with cognition sparks a hypothesis linking motion and personality traits. Hence, this study explored whether personality traits could be linked to biomechanical variables characterizing running forms. To do so, 80 runners completed three randomized 50-m running-trials at 3.3, 4.2, and 5m/s during which their running biomechanics [ground contact time (tc), flight time (tf), duty factor (DF), step frequency (SF), leg stiffness (kleg), maximal vertical ground reaction force (Fmax), and maximal leg compression of the spring during stance (ΔL)] was evaluated. In addition, participants' personality traits were assessed through the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) test. The MBTI classifies personality traits into one of two possible categories along four axes: extraversion-introversion; sensing-intuition; thinking-feeling; and judging-perceiving. This exploratory study offers compelling evidence that personality traits, specifically sensing and intuition, are associated with distinct running biomechanics. Individuals classified as sensing demonstrated a more grounded running style characterized by prolonged tc, shorter tf, higher DF, and greater ΔL compared to intuition individuals (p≤0.02). Conversely, intuition runners exhibited a more dynamic and elastic running style with a shorter tc and higher kleg than their sensing counterparts (p≤0.02). Post-hoc tests revealed a significant difference in tc between intuition and sensing runners at all speeds (p≤0.02). According to the definition of each category provided by the MBTI, sensing individuals tend to focus on concrete facts and physical realities while intuition individuals emphasize abstract concepts and patterns of information. These results suggest that runners with sensing and intuition personality traits differ in their ability to use their lower limb structures as springs. Intuition runners appeared to rely more in the stretch-shortening cycle to energetically optimize their running style while sensing runners seemed to optimize running economy by promoting more forward progression than vertical oscillations. This study underscores the intriguing interplay between personality traits of individuals and their preferred movement patterns.

Chromotherapy rooms (CRs) are physical spaces with colored lights able to enhance an individual's mood, well-being, and, in the long term, their health. Virtual reality technology can be used to implement CR (VRCRs) and provide higher flexibility at lower costs. However, existing VRCRs are limited to a few use cases, and they do not fully explore the potential and pitfalls of the technology. This work contributes by comparing three VRCR designs: empty, static, and dynamic. Empty is just a void but a blue-colored environment. Static adds static abstract graphics (flowers and sea texture), and dynamic adds dynamic elements (animated star particle systems, fractals, and ocean flow). All conditions include relaxing low-beta and ocean sounds. We conducted a between-subject experiment (

Learned resourcefulness is a broad and abstract concept that refers to the ability to use self-observation and self-control to change internal negative feelings, emotions, or thoughts to reduce the adverse effects of stress on emotions and behavior. Excessive stress negatively affects the physical and mental health of individuals, and learned resourcefulness can help alleviate the effects of stress. Nursing measures implemented in a timely manner to enhance patients' self-regulation ability and improve their mental and physical stability are important. In this article, based on the concept analysis method of Walker and Avant (2019), the defining characteristics of learned resourcefulness are summarized as: (1) self-control ability, (2) problem-solving skills, and (3) belief in one's ability to cope effectively with adverse situations. These characteristics are illustrated in case examples, providing empirical reference indicators and introducing the application of nursing research and practice. It is hoped that this article will help nursing colleagues understand learned resourcefulness and provide a reference for clinical assessment and the development of related intervention measures.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the evidence of art therapy on depression, anxiety, quality of life, and mental distress in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. A systematic literature search was conducted. A systematic search of online electronic databases including, PubMed/MEDLINE, Scopus Web of Science, PsycINFO, and EMBASE was performed using keywords extracted from Medical Subject Headings such as "Art Therapy," and "Neoplasms," "Cancer," and "Chemotherapy" from the earliest to January 11, 2023. A total of 3890 publications were assessed for relevance by title and abstract. The remaining 1298 articles were examined using three inclusion criteria: interventions were guided by an artist or art therapist, participants were actively involved in the creative process, and anxiety, depression, and/or quality of life were included as outcome measures. The methodological quality of the included studies was appraised using specific checklists. A total of 495 patients with cancer undergoing chemotherapy participated in ten studies. Among the participants, 87.21% were female and 63.43% of them were in the intervention group. The mean age of the participants was 53.93 in five studies that reduced depression in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Six studies investigated the effect of different art therapy methods on the anxiety of patients, which in four studies reduced their anxiety. Also, three studies investigated the effect of different art therapy methods on patients' distress, which in two studies reduced their distress. Art therapy had positive effects on depression, anxiety, quality of life, and psychological distress of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Meanwhile, research on art therapy in cancer patients on chemotherapy is insufficient. We cannot conclude that art therapy benefits cancer patients on chemotherapy. More rigorous research is needed.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: People living with schizophrenia have reduced physical function and are more likely to experience loneliness than those without condition. Low physical function is associated with greater loneliness in people with psychosis. However, it is unclear whether social isolation and loneliness contribute to impaired physical function in this population. Loneliness is linked to an increased risk of physical function impairment among older individuals, but research on patients living with schizophrenia is limited. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study is the first to evaluate the longitudinal association of social isolation and loneliness with physical function among inpatients living with schizophrenia. It showed that more than one third of the participants experienced a decline in physical function over a 2-year period. Loneliness, rather than social isolation, was associated with an increase in physical function impairment over 2 years among inpatients living with schizophrenia. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Healthcare professionals should recognize loneliness as a potential risk factor for impaired physical function among inpatients diagnosed with schizophrenia. It is recommended that people living with schizophrenia are assessed for loneliness and that interventions are offered to alleviate their feelings of loneliness. Implementing interventions to reduce loneliness may help improve physical function and overall quality of life for individuals living with schizophrenia. INTRODUCTION: Patients living with schizophrenia often experience low physical function, which is associated with negative health outcomes. Therefore, investigating the risk factors for physical function is crucial in this population. This study examined the longitudinal association of social isolation and loneliness with physical function among inpatients living with schizophrenia. Physical function was assessed using measures of activities daily living (ADL), instrumental activities daily living (IADL) and the combination scores of ADL/IADL. Social isolation was indexed with five types of social connection and loneliness was measured using UCLA Loneliness Scale. Social isolation was not associated with the measures of physical function over 2 years. Loneliness exhibited an association with IADL and ADL/IADL at follow-up, after adjustment for baseline levels of the outcomes. These associations remained when both social isolation and loneliness were simultaneously entered into the model. Loneliness, rather than social isolation, was associated with increased physical function impairment over 2 years among inpatients living with schizophrenia. Healthcare professionals should consider loneliness as a potential risk factor for impaired physical function. It would be beneficial to assess patients for loneliness and implement interventions to reduce feelings of loneliness.

The objective of this mixed methods review was to examine the effectiveness and family experiences of interventions promoting partnerships between families and the multidisciplinary health care team in pediatric and neonatal intensive care units. Hospitalization of infants and children in neonatal intensive care units and pediatric intensive care units has a significant effect on their families, including increased stress, anxiety, and depression. Available evidence syntheses focused on specific family-centered care, but not on partnership, which is another aspect that may improve families' outcomes and experiences. This review considered studies that focused on effectiveness or family experiences of interventions by health professionals in partnership with families of infants or children hospitalized in an intensive care unit. For the quantitative component of the review, the type of intervention was a partnership between the health care team and the family, and focused on outcomes of stress, anxiety, depression, quality of life, attachment, or satisfaction with family-centered care. For the qualitative component, the phenomenon of interest was family experiences of interventions that included collaboration and partnering with the health care team in the pediatric or neonatal intensive care unit. Quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods studies, published from 2000 to August 2022 in English or French, were eligible for inclusion. The JBI methodology for convergent segregated mixed methods systematic reviews was followed using the standardized JBI critical appraisal and data extraction tools. Ten databases were searched in December 2019 and again in August 2022. Study selection, critical appraisal, and data extraction were performed by 2 reviewers independently. Findings of quantitative studies were statistically pooled through meta-analysis and those that could not be pooled were reported narratively. Qualitative studies were pooled through meta-synthesis. This review included 6 qualitative and 42 quantitative studies. The methodological quality varied, and all studies were included regardless of methodological quality. Meta-analyses showed improvements in anxiety, satisfaction with family-centered care, and stress, yet no conclusive effects in attachment and depression. These results should be interpreted with caution due to high heterogeneity. Qualitative analysis resulted in 2 synthesized findings: "Interventions that incorporate partnerships between families and the health care team can improve the family's experience and capacity to care for the child" and "Having a child in intensive care can be an experience of significant impact for families." Integration of quantitative and qualitative evidence revealed some congruence between findings; however, the paucity of qualitative evidence minimized the depth of this integration. Partnership interventions can have a positive impact on parents of children in intensive care units, with improvements reported in stress, anxiety, and satisfaction with family-centered care. PROSPERO CRD42019137834. A Chinese-language version of the abstract of this review is available at http://links.lww.com/SRX/A50 . A French-language version of the abstract of this review is available at http://links.lww.com/SRX/A51 .

It is easier to execute a response in the promise of a reward and withhold a response in the promise of a punishment than vice versa, due to a conflict between cue-related Pavlovian and outcome-related instrumental action tendencies in the reverse conditions. This robust learning asymmetry in go and nogo learning is referred to as the Pavlovian bias. Interestingly, it is similar to motivational tendencies reported for affective facial expressions, i.e., facilitation of approach to a smile and withdrawal from a frown. The present study investigated whether and how learning from emotional faces instead of abstract stimuli modulates the Pavlovian bias in reinforcement learning. To this end, 137 healthy adult participants performed an orthogonalized Go/Nogo task that fully decoupled action (go/nogo) and outcome valence (win points/avoid losing points). Three groups of participants were tested with either emotional facial cues whose affective valence was either congruent (CON) or incongruent (INC) to the required instrumental response, or with neutral facial cues (NEU). Relative to NEU, the Pavlovian bias was reduced in both CON and INC, though still present under all learning conditions. Importantly, only for CON, the reduction of the Pavlovian bias effect was adaptive by improving learning performance in one of the conflict conditions. In contrast, the reduction of the Pavlovian bias in INC was completely driven by decreased learning performance in non-conflict conditions. These results suggest a potential role of arousal/salience in Pavlovian-instrumental regulation and cue-action congruency in the adaptability of goal-directed behavior. Implications for clinical application are discussed.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Psychotic symptoms and depression are common problems in people diagnosed with schizophrenia. Psychological flexibility is a skill that facilitates coping with difficulties. There is limited research on the role of psychological flexibility in the relationship between psychotic symptoms and depression in people diagnosed with schizophrenia. WHAT DOES THE ARTICLE ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This article investigates the role of psychological flexibility in the link between psychotic symptom severity and depression in people diagnosed with schizophrenia. The article shows that psychological flexibility partially mediates the relationship between psychotic symptom severity and depression. The article suggests that interventions aimed at improving psychological flexibility may be beneficial in reducing depressive symptoms in people diagnosed with schizophrenia. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses should consider psychotic symptom severity and psychological flexibility when assessing and intervening for depressive symptoms in people diagnosed with schizophrenia. Mental health nurses should receive training to improve psychological flexibility and pass this skill on to their patients. Mental health nurses should continue to research the effectiveness and outcomes of interventions aimed at improving psychological flexibility. INTRODUCTION: Psychological flexibility may help people diagnosed with schizophrenia (PWS) cope with their psychotic symptoms and reduce their depressive symptoms, but the mechanism of this effect is unclear. To investigate whether psychological flexibility mediates the relationship between psychotic symptom severity and depression in PWS. A cross-sectional study was conducted, in which a total of 111 PWS were assessed with DSM-5 Clinician-Rated Dimensions of Psychosis Symptom Severity, Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia and Acceptance and Action Questionnaire. Data analysis was performed using SPSS 25 and PROCESS macro. Significant correlations were found between psychotic symptoms, depression and psychological flexibility. Psychological flexibility partially mediated the relationship between psychotic symptom severity and depression. Psychological flexibility could weaken the impact of psychotic symptom severity on depression in PWS. Higher psychotic symptoms were associated with lower psychological flexibility and higher depression. Interventions to improve psychological flexibility may prevent depressive symptoms in PWS. Psychiatric nurses can use psychological flexibility as a goal for evaluation and intervention.

Emotion and perception are tightly intertwined, as affective experiences often arise from the appraisal of sensory information. Nonetheless, whether the brain encodes emotional instances using a sensory-specific code or in a more abstract manner is unclear. Here, we answer this question by measuring the association between emotion ratings collected during a unisensory or multisensory presentation of a full-length movie and brain activity recorded in typically developed, congenitally blind and congenitally deaf participants. Emotional instances are encoded in a vast network encompassing sensory, prefrontal, and temporal cortices. Within this network, the ventromedial prefrontal cortex stores a categorical representation of emotion independent of modality and previous sensory experience, and the posterior superior temporal cortex maps the valence dimension using an abstract code. Sensory experience more than modality affects how the brain organizes emotional information outside supramodal regions, suggesting the existence of a scaffold for the representation of emotional states where sensory inputs during development shape its functioning.

Workplace violence, including violent, intimidating, and disruptive acts, commonly occurs in healthcare settings. Type 2 workplace violence in nursing refers to patient/visitor behaviors directed toward clinicians, contributing to physical and psychological harm. Nurse victims often do not report these events to employers or law enforcement, making it challenging to address workplace violence. Our research examined nurse reactions to Type 2 workplace violence by identifying what behaviors they perceived as aggressive and reportable. Specific aims included: 1) developing and testing video vignettes to portray realistic patient aggression scenarios; 2) identifying nurse understandings of aggressive events that prompt affective reactions, and; 3) examining clinical characteristics related to the nurse victim's likelihood to report. Through a sequential mixed-methods design, we qualitatively developed novel video vignettes portraying Type 2 workplace violence to experimentally examine how nurses interpreted them within a quantitative repeated measures survey. Two expert nurse research panels (n = 10) created five vignettes, from which nurses (n = 282) completed a survey with 1382 unique responses. Analyses included descriptive statistics and repeated measures ANOVA/regression models. Video vignettes realistically portrayed workplace violence events, eliciting negative emotional responses among nurses that increased in magnitude with statistical significance as the level of displayed aggression escalated. Statistically significant factors influencing nurse reporting of workplace violence included; 1) the level of aggression displayed by the patient; 2) the level of harm received by the nurse; 3) whether the nurse felt the patient's actions were intentional, and; 4) the nurse's perceived frequency of exposure to workplace violence. Results suggested that nurse victims of Type 2 workplace violence experience depression, anger, fear, and anxiety, which may contribute to long-term mental health consequences. Findings also identified factors related to nurse reporting behaviors, which may help mitigate workplace violence in healthcare settings by informing research and promoting workplace practices that encourage reporting and safety. Not registered. Nurse reactions to workplace violence: Video vignettes reveal escalating aggression's impact on reporting. #EndNurseAbuse #WorkplaceViolence.

Screening for depression in primary care alone is not sufficient to improve clinical outcomes. However, targeted feedback of the screening results to patients might result in beneficial effects. The GET.FEEDBACK.GP trial investigated whether targeted feedback of the depression screening result to patients, in addition to feedback to general practitioners (GPs), leads to greater reductions in depression severity than GP feedback alone or no feedback. The GET.FEEDBACK.GP trial was an investigator-initiated, multicentre, three-arm, observer-blinded, randomised controlled trial. Depression screening was conducted electronically using the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) in 64 GP practices across five regions in Germany while patients were waiting to see their GP. Currently undiagnosed patients (aged ≥18 years) who screened positive for depression (PHQ-9 score ≥10), were proficient in the German language, and had a personal consultation with a GP were randomly assigned (1:1:1) into a group that received no feedback on their depression screening result, a group in which only the GP received feedback, or a group in which both GP and patient received feedback. Randomisation was stratified by treating GP and PHQ-9 depression severity. Trial staff were masked to patient enrolment and study group allocation and GPs were masked to the feedback recieved by the patient. Written feedback, including the screening result and information on depression, was provided to the relevant groups before the consultation. The primary outcome was PHQ-9-measured depression severity at 6 months after randomisation. An intention-to-treat analysis was conducted for patients who had at least one follow-up visit. This study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03988985) and is complete. Between July 17, 2019, and Jan 31, 2022, 25 279 patients were approached for eligibility screening, 17 150 were excluded, and 8129 patients completed screening, of whom 1030 (12·7%) screened positive for depression. 344 patients were randomly assigned to receive no feedback, 344 were assigned to receive GP-targeted feedback, and 339 were assigned to receive GP-targeted plus patient-targeted feedback. 252 (73%) patients in the no feedback group, 252 (73%) in the GP-targeted feedback group, and 256 (76%) in the GP-targeted and patient-targeted feedback group were included in the analysis of the primary outcome at 6 months, which reflected a follow-up rate of 74%. Gender was reported as female by 637 (62·1%) of 1025 participants, male by 384 (37·5%), and diverse by four (0·4%). 169 (16%) of 1026 patients with available migration data had a migration background. Mean age was 39·5 years (SD 15·2). PHQ-9 scores improved for each group between baseline and 6 months by -4·15 (95% CI -4·99 to -3·30) in the no feedback group, -4·19 (-5·04 to -3·33) in the GP feedback group, and -4·91 (-5·76 to -4·07) in the GP plus patient feedback group, with no significant difference between the three groups (global p=0·13). The difference in PHQ-9 scores when comparing the GP plus patient feedback group with the no feedback group was -0·77 (-1·60 to 0·07, d=-0·16) and when comparing with the GP-only feedback group was -0·73 (-1·56 to 0·11, d=-0·15). No increase in suicidality was observed as an adverse event in either group. Providing targeted feedback to patients and GPs after depression screening does not significantly reduce depression severity compared with GP feedback alone or no feedback. Further research is required to investigate the potential specific effectiveness of depression screening with systematic feedback for selected subgroups. German Innovation Fund. For the German translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Psychological interventions that are efficacious as treatments for depression could indirectly affect suicide-related outcomes. We examined suicidal thoughts and behaviours as eligibility criteria, outcomes, and adverse events across trials of psychotherapy for depression. We used a publicly available meta-analytic database developed through systematic searches (updated as of May 1, 2023) to identify randomised controlled trials in which a psychological intervention for depression was compared with an inactive or non-specific control condition in adults with depression and in which any suicide-related outcomes were reported. We also identified studies in which suicide risk was an exclusion criterion. We excluded inpatient studies and trials of unguided digital interventions or collaborative care that included a psychological component. Pairs of reviewers worked independently to select studies and extract data. In a random-effects meta-analysis with robust variance estimation, we assessed the effect of the psychological intervention on suicide outcomes in trials in which suicide was explicitly assessed as an outcome with clinical scales with established psychometric properties. Risk of bias was assessed with the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool (version 2). Of the 469 randomised trials we identified in which a psychological intervention was compared with an inactive control in people with depression, 251 excluded people judged at risk of suicide. Any assessment of suicide was included in only 45 trials, 12 of which assessed suicidal ideation or risk as an outcome. These 12 trials included 3930 participants, 2795 (71%) of whom were female and 1135 (29%) of whom were male; data for age and ethnicity were not consistently reported. Psychological interventions for depression were associated with a small reduction in suicidal ideation and risk in 11 trials (one trial reported only follow-up data) after the intervention (standardised mean difference -0·31 [95% CI -0·60 to -0·03]) but not at follow-up (-0·49 [-1·31 to 0·32]). Suicide-related adverse events were reported in 25 trials, and suicide-related serious adverse events (eg, suicide attempts, deaths by suicide) were reported in 13 trials. Heterogeneity was substantial across all analyses, and prediction intervals crossed zero. Trials of psychological interventions for depression rarely report assessments of suicide. Psychological interventions might reduce suicidal ideation in patients with depression, but more randomised controlled trials are required to clarify this effect. Monitoring and reporting of suicide-related adverse events should be improved in trials of psychological interventions for depression, and future trials should incorporate outcomes related to suicidal thoughts or behaviours. None. For the Spanish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Quality of life refers to the degree of well-being a person feels. The development of a hemophilia-targeting quality of life scale is important for hemophiliacs and their treating physicians. Textual analysis. First, a review of studies on quality of life, hemophilia and related quality of life scales was conducted; Subsequently, two rounds of systematic searches of the Springer database were conducted to filter the literature on universal quality of life scale studies and hemophilia-targeting quality of life scale studies by title and abstract, and then textual analysis was performed. The former included 77,456 articles, 26,117 chapters and 7,086 related bibliographies, while the latter initially retrieved 211 entries articles, 118 chapters and 43 related bibliographies. Through filtering, the former contains 22 documents, yielding 1,431 valid word stems, and the latter contains 9 documents, yielding 1,541 valid word stems. While universal quality of life scales mostly fit into the broad framework of WHOQOL- BREF, the development of hemophilia-targeting quality of life scales inclines towards pains that patients suffer and technology advances in pharmaceutical. The current hemophilia QOL scales are mainly based on the HR-QoL, others mainly based on the HR-QoL as the master version. At the same time, the popularization of existing hemophilia quality of life scales in developing countries like China is not high, and the development of hemophilia quality of life scales is insufficient.

Remodeling eubiosis of the gut microenvironment may contribute to preventing the occurrence and development of depression. Mounting experimental evidence has shown that complement C3 signaling is associated with the pathogenesis of depression, and disruption of the gut microbiota may be an underlying cause of complement system activation. However, the mechanism by which complement C3 participates in gut-brain crosstalk in the pathogenesis of depression remains unknown. In the present study, we found that chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced mice exhibited obvious depression-like behavior as well as cognitive impairment, which was associated with significant gut dysbiosis, especially enrichment of Proteobacteria and elevation of microbiota-derived lipopolysaccharides (LPS). In addition, peripheral and central complement C3 activation and central C3/CR3-mediated aberrant synaptic pruning in microglia have also been observed. Transplantation of gut microbiota from CUMS-induced depression model mice into specific pathogen-free and germ-free mice induced depression-like behavior and concomitant cognitive impairment in the recipient mice, accompanied by increased activation of the complement C3/CR3 pathway in the prefrontal cortex and abnormalities in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning. Conversely, antidepressants and fecal microbiota transplantation from antidepressant-treated donors improved depression-like behaviors and restored gut microbiome disturbances in depressed mice. Concurrently, inhibition of the complement C3/CR3 pathway, amelioration of abnormal microglia-mediated synaptic pruning, and increased expression of the synapsin and postsynaptic density protein 95 were observed. Collectively, our results revealed that gut dysbiosis induces the development of depression-like behaviors through abnormal synapse pruning in microglia-mediated by complement C3, and the inhibition of abnormal synaptic pruning is the key to targeting microbes to treat depression. Our findings provide novel insights into the involvement of complement C3/CR3 signaling and aberrant synaptic pruning of chemotactic microglia in gut-brain crosstalk in the pathogenesis of depression. Video Abstract.

Intestinal microbial composition not only affects the health of the gut but also influences centrally mediated systems involved in mood, through the "gut-brain" axis, a bidirectional communication between gut microbiota and the brain. In this context, the modulation of intestinal microbiota and its metabolites through the administration of probiotics seems to represent a very promising approach in the treatment of the central nervous system alterations. Early postnatal life is a critical period during which the brain undergoes profound and essential modulations in terms of maturation and plasticity. Maternal separation (MS), i.e., the disruption of the mother-pup interaction, represents a pivotal paradigm in the study of stress-related mood disorders, by inducing persistent changes in the immune system, inflammatory processes, and emotional behavior in adult mammals. We conducted experiments to investigate whether sustained consumption of a multi-strain probiotic formulation by adult male mice could mitigate the effects of maternal separation. Our data demonstrated that the treatment with probiotics was able to totally reverse the anxiety- and depressive-like behavior; normalize the neuro-inflammatory state, by restoring the resting state of microglia; and finally induce a proneurogenic effect. Mice subjected to maternal separation showed changes in microbiota composition compared to the control group that resulted in permissive colonization by the administered multi-strain probiotic product. As a consequence, the probiotic treatment also significantly affected the production of SCFA and in particular the level of butyrate. Gut microbiota and its metabolites mediate the therapeutic action of the probiotic mix on MS-induced brain dysfunctions. Our findings extend the knowledge on the use of probiotics as a therapeutic tool in the presence of alterations of the emotional sphere that significantly impact on gut microbiota composition. Video Abstract.

Self-harm in children and young people is increasing. Parents are vital in supporting young people; however, parents may experience distress linked to the self-harm. Previous reviews have highlighted the emotional impact and need for information and support, however, have not elucidated the relationships between these themes, nor examined the quantitative data examining parents' well-being. We conducted a mixed methods review, with qualitative meta-synthesis focusing on links between themes and quantitative synthesis of parental well-being findings, including pooled means. PsycInfo, Medline, EMBASE, AMED, CINHAL and Web of Science were searched to identify relevant records. References of included studies were also searched. Every abstract was screened by two authors. Data were extracted by one author and checked by another. We identified 39 reports of 32 studies: 16 with qualitative data and 17 with quantitative data (one had both). Qualitative findings showed how parents' emotions were associated to their knowledge and beliefs about self-harm. Parents' emotions often evidenced the need to self-care, but emotions of guilt reduced engagement in self-care. How parents supported their young person was linked to their knowledge, and the management of their own emotions, and influenced if they could engage in self-care. Quantitative findings were mixed, however suggested poor general mental health amongst these parents. Further good quality quantitative studies are needed, with measurement of psychological mechanisms that may underpin parental distress. Current evidence supports peer-support and interventions that go beyond information provision to address the connected factors of knowledge, emotion, self-care, and parenting behaviours.

Prepared learning accounts suggest that specialized learning mechanisms increase the retention of associations linked to ancestrally-prevalent threats. Few studies have investigated specialized aversion learning for pathogen threats. In four pre-registered studies (N's = 515, 495, 164, 175), we employed an evaluative conditioning procedure to test whether foods (versus non-foods) are more readily associated with negative content associated with pathogens than negative content not associated with pathogens. Participants saw negatively valenced (either pathogen-relevant or -irrelevant), neutral or positively-valenced stimuli paired with meats and plants (in Studies 1 and 2) and with meats and abstract shapes (in Studies 3 and 4). They then evaluated each stimulus explicitly via self-reports (Studies 1-4) and implicitly via an Affect Misattribution Procedure (Studies 3 and 4). Linear mixed models revealed general evaluative conditioning effects, but inconsistent evidence for specialized (implicit or explicit) learning for a food-pathogen association. However, results from a mega-analysis across studies revealed stronger conditioning effects for meats paired with pathogen-relevant negative stimuli than pathogen-irrelevant negative stimuli.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is a debilitating psychiatric disorder that affects occupational and social functioning. Virtual reality (VR) therapies can provide effective treatment for people with SAD. However, with rapid innovations in immersive VR technology, more contemporary research is required to examine the effectiveness and concomitant user experience outcomes (ie, safety, usability, acceptability, and attrition) of emerging VR interventions for SAD. The aim of this systematic review was to examine the effectiveness and user experience of contemporary VR interventions among people with SAD. The Cochrane Library, Emcare, PsycINFO, PubMed, ScienceDirect, Scopus, and Web of Science databases were searched between January 1, 2012, and April 26, 2022. Deduplicated search results were screened based on title and abstract information. Full-text examination was conducted on 71 articles. Studies of all designs and comparator groups were included if they appraised the effectiveness and user experience outcomes of any immersive VR intervention among people with SAD. A standardized coding sheet was used to extract data on key participant, intervention, comparator, outcome, and study design items. The findings were tabulated and discussed using a narrative synthesis. A total of 18 studies met the inclusion criteria. The findings showed that VR exposure therapy-based interventions can generally provide effective, safe, usable, and acceptable treatments for adults with SAD. The average attrition rate from VR treatment was low (11.36%) despite some reported user experience difficulties, including potential simulator sickness, exposure-based emotional distress, and problems with managing treatment delivered in a synchronous group setting. This review also revealed several research gaps, including a lack of VR treatment studies on children and adolescents with SAD as well as a paucity of standardized assessments of VR user experience interactions. More studies are required to address these issues. PROSPERO CRD42022353891; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=353891.

Previous evidence has suggested that feature-based templates-for-rejection can be maintained in working memory to suppress matching features in the environment. Currently, this effect has only been demonstrated using abstract neutral shapes, meaning that it is unclear whether this generalizes to real-world images, including aversive stimuli. In the current investigation, participants searched amongst an array of real-world objects for a target, after being precued with either a distractor template, target template, or a no template baseline. In Experiment 1, where both distractor and target template cues were presented randomly on a trial-by-trial basis, there was moderate evidence of increased capture by aversive distractors after the distractor template cue. In Experiment 2a, however, when distractor templates were the only available cue and more time was given to encode the cue features, there was moderate evidence of effective distractor inhibition for real-world aversive and neutral stimuli. In Experiment 2b, when the task required a slower more effortful comparison of target features to stereotypical object representations, there was weaker evidence of inhibition, though there was still modest evidence suggesting effective inhibition of aversive distractors. A Bayesian meta-analysis revealed that across Experiment 2, aversive distractors showed strong cumulative evidence of effective inhibition, but inconsistent inhibition for neutral distractors. The results are interpreted from a rational search behaviour framework, which suggests that individuals utilize informative cues when they enable the most beneficial strategy and are accessible, and apply these to distractors when they cause sufficient disruption, either to search speed or emotional state.

Sound-shape correspondence refers to the preferential mapping of information across the senses, such as associating a nonsense word like bouba with rounded abstract shapes and kiki with spiky abstract shapes. Here we focused on audio-tactile (AT) sound-shape correspondences between nonsense words and abstract shapes that are felt but not seen. Despite previous research indicating a role for visual experience in establishing AT associations, it remains unclear how visual experience facilitates AT correspondences. Here we investigated one hypothesis: seeing the abstract shapes improve haptic exploration by (a) increasing effective haptic strategies and/or (b) decreasing ineffective haptic strategies. We analyzed five haptic strategies in video-recordings of 6- to 8-year-old children obtained in a previous study. We found the dominant strategy used to explore shapes differed based on visual experience. Effective strategies, which provide information about shape, were dominant in participants with prior visual experience, whereas ineffective strategies, which do not provide information about shape, were dominant in participants without prior visual experience. With prior visual experience, poking-an effective and efficient strategy-was dominant, whereas without prior visual experience, uncategorizable and ineffective strategies were dominant. These findings suggest that prior visual experience of abstract shapes in 6- to 8-year-olds can increase the effectiveness and efficiency of haptic exploration, potentially explaining why prior visual experience can increase the strength of AT sound-shape correspondences.

Multiple sensory-motor and non-sensory-motor dimensions have been proposed for semantic representation, but it remains unclear how the semantic system is organized along them in the human brain. Using naturalistic fMRI data and large-scale semantic ratings, we investigated the overlaps and dissociations between the neural correlates of six semantic dimensions: vision, motor, socialness, emotion, space, and time. Our findings revealed a more complex semantic atlas than what is predicted by current neurobiological models of semantic representation. Brain regions that are selectively sensitive to specific semantic dimensions were found both within and outside the brain networks assumed to represent multimodal general and/or abstract semantics. Overlaps between the neural correlates of different semantic dimensions were mainly found inside the default mode network, concentrated in the left anterior superior temporal gyrus and angular gyrus, which have been proposed as two connector hubs that bridge the multimodal experiential semantic system and the language-supported semantic system.

Individual appraisals of personal well-being consider a spectrum of constructs including the reflections on the degree to which one's life is ultimately secure, meaningful, or valued in the context of dynamic changes in their bio-psycho-social environments. Standardized questionnaires for well-being evaluate an ideal state of health which is operationally defined by abstract constructs. Patient reports describe well-being as a more dynamic construct that relates to how they adapt to successive changes in their life situations. While response shift theory addresses this dynamic nature, little is known about how personal well-being is pursued as personal aspirations evolve. In this study, we identify regularly practiced goal-directed activities reported to contribute to the pursuit of personal well-being. We then propose a taxonomy of these reported activities to inform a process-based model for well-being. Purposive sampling was conducted with individuals, 30 to 60 years of age, with diverse ethnicities reflecting the Singaporean population. Individual semi-structured interviews were administered with the primary question: "What are the things or activities you have done in the last two weeks that made you feel like you had a good day?" Probes explored the personally salient meaning of each activity. A thematic approach was used for data analysis followed by a framework analysis to categorize the activities into major themes. We interviewed 40 individuals comprised of 60% female participants. Thematic analysis identified eight types of goal-directed activities, which were categorized under three major themes: (i) Self-Affirming Care through individual self-care and maintaining interpersonal relationships, (ii) Achievement-Focused Tasks as indicated by work-related accomplishments and developing a skill or hobby, (iii) Affiliative Growth and Support as reflected through religious practices and community services. Planned physical activity contributed to self-affirming care and achievement-focused tasks. Social affirming roles were associated with both achievement-focused tasks and affiliative growth and support. In the dimensions of goal-directed activities identified, there is close alignment between Self-Affirming Care and attachment theory; Achievement-Focused Tasks and self-determination theory; and Affiliative Growth and Support and social mattering. These findings can contribute to a comprehensive process-based model of well-being which is more closely aligned to patient-report appraisals of personal well-being.

The transition from childhood to adolescence is associated with an increase in rates of some psychiatric disorders, including major depressive disorder, a debilitating mood disorder. The aim of this systematic review is to update the evidence on the benefits and harms of screening for depression in primary care and non-mental health clinic settings among children and adolescents. This review is an update of a previous systematic review, for which the last search was conducted in 2017. We searched Ovid MEDLINE® ALL, Embase Classic+Embase, PsycINFO, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and CINAHL on November 4, 2019, and updated on February 19, 2021. If no randomized controlled trials were found, we planned to conduct an additional search for non-randomized trials with a comparator group. For non-randomized trials, we applied a non-randomized controlled trial filter and searched the same databases except for Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from January 2015 to February 2021. We also conducted a targeted search of the gray literature for unpublished documents. Title and abstract, and full-text screening were completed independently by pairs of reviewers. In this review update, we were unable to find any randomized controlled studies that satisfied our eligibility criteria and evaluated the potential benefits and harms of screening for depression in children and adolescents. Additionally, a search for non-randomized trials yielded no studies that met the inclusion criteria. The findings of this review indicate a lack of available evidence regarding the potential benefits and harms of screening for depression in children and adolescents. This absence of evidence emphasizes the necessity for well-conducted clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness of depression screening among children and adolescents in primary care and non-mental health clinic settings. PROSPERO CRD42020150373 .

The purpose of this review was to synthesize and categorize the literature on the use of brief mindfulness interventions for both patients and physicians across the spectrum of perioperative care. Web-based discovery services and discipline-specific databases were queried. Brief mindfulness interventions were defined as sessions lasting 30 min or less on any single occasion, with a total practice accumulation not exceeding 100 min per week, and a duration of up to 4 weeks. Study screening and data extraction were facilitated through the Covidence software platform. After screening 1047 potential studies, 201 articles were identified based on initial abstract and title screening; 10 studies ultimately met inclusion criteria. All ten studies were published between 2019 and 2023; most (n = 9) reports focused on patients (total joint arthroplasty, n = 3; stereotactic breast biopsy, n = 2; minimally invasive foregut surgery, n = 1; septorhinoplasty, n = 1; cardiac surgery, n = 1; and other/multiple procedures, n = 1); one studied investigated mindfulness interventions among surgeons. The duration of the interventions varied (3 min to 29 min). The most common issue that the mindfulness intervention aimed to address was pain (n = 6), followed by narcotic use (n = 3), anxiety (n = 2), delirium (n = 1), or patient satisfaction (n = 1). While most studies included a small sample size and had inconclusive results, brief mindfulness interventions were noted to impact various health-related outcomes, including mental health outcomes, anxiety, and pain perception. Mindfulness interventions may be a scalable, low-cost, time-limited intervention that has the potential to optimize well-being and surgical outcomes broadly construed.

Endometriosis is a widespread problem in women of reproductive age, causing cyclical and non-cyclical pain in the pelvis and elsewhere, and associated with fatigue, fertility problems, and other symptoms. As a chronic pain problem, psychological variables are important in adjustment and quality of life, but have not been systematically studied. A systematic search of multiple databases was conducted to obtain surveys and qualitative studies of women's experience of pain from endometriosis. Surveys were combined narratively; qualitative studies were combined by thematic synthesis, and the latter rated for methodological quality. Over 2000 records were screened on title and abstract, and provided 22 surveys and 33 qualitative studies from which accounts could be extracted of the psychological components of pain in endometriosis. Surveys mostly addressed quality of life in endometriosis, with poorer quality of life associated with higher levels of pain and of distress, but few referred to coherent psychological models. Qualitative studies focused rather on women's experience of living with endometriosis, including trajectories of diagnosis and treatment, with a few addressing meaning and identity. Thematic synthesis provided 10 themes, under the groupings of internal experience of endometriosis (impact on body, emotions, and life); interface with the external world (through self-regulation and social regulation); effects on interpersonal and social life, and encounters with medical care. The psychological components of pain from endometriosis only partly corresponded with standard psychological models of pain, derived from musculoskeletal pain studies, with fewer fears about physical integrity and more about difficulties of managing pain and other symptoms in social settings, including work. Better understanding of the particular psychological threats of endometriosis, and integration of this understanding into medical care with opportunities for psychologically-based pain management, would substantially improve the experience and quality of life of women with painful endometriosis.

Recently two independent meta-analyses on the efficacy of Cognitive Bias Modification of Interpretation (CBM-I) to reduce aggressive behavior came to different conclusions: Ciesinski et al. (2023) concluded that "CBM demonstrates efficacy for the treatment of aggressive behavior" (Abstract), whereas our research team concluded that "findings show limited support for the efficacy of CBM-I to reduce aggressive behavior" (AlMoghrabi et al., 2023, Discussion). How can similar meta-analyses reach such different conclusions? In this commentary, we raise awareness concerning how 1) seemingly identical research questions can be based on meaningfully different definitions of the intervention and outcomes; 2) intervention efficacy conclusions can depend on outcome assessment type; and 3) the interpretation of underpowered moderator analyses should not depend on statistical significance. We end our commentary with a third, more nuanced conclusion that can reconcile the two disparate conclusions: that current CBM-I is an effective experimental manipulation to modify interpretation biases, but not an effective stand-alone treatment to reduce aggressive behavior.

Sleep problems are common among those with depression, and there is increasing evidence that sleep problems should be addressed during treatment simultaneously rather than treating depression alone. The first-line treatment for insomnia is cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBT-I), due to a lack of well-trained therapists and patient time constraints (travelling, work), CBT-I has not been popularized. The development of digital cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (dCBT-I) is making the treatment more accessible. Interventions for dCBT-I were significantly better than other control conditions in both reducing insomnia and improving depression in patients with depression and insomnia comorbidities. The effect was found to be related to the duration of the intervention and the severity of insomnia before the intervention and therapist-involved dCBT-I has less shedding than self-help. It's important for mental health practitioners to realize that insomnia in depressed people needs to be treated. Future trials may explore the effectiveness of therapist-guided dCBT-I in depressed populations and analyse the cost-effectiveness of this treatment. Aim The aim of the study was to systematically identify and synthesize the evidence for the effectiveness of digital cognitive behavioural therapy in insomnia with comorbid depression. Design Systematic review and metaanalysis. Methods A search was conducted on five English and four non-English databases from the inception of the databases to November 2023. This review adhered to the recommendations of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis Statement 2020 and the included studies were evaluated using version 2 of the Cochrane risk of bias tool. This review examined sleep-related outcomes, including insomnia severity and sleep diaries, along with psychological outcomes, such as depression. We conducted a meta-analysis of each outcome using a random effects model. Heterogeneity was assessed by the I

Human affects such as emotions, moods, feelings are increasingly being considered as key parameter to enhance the interaction of human with diverse machines and systems. However, their intrinsically abstract and ambiguous nature make it challenging to accurately extract and exploit the emotional information. Here, we develop a multi-modal human emotion recognition system which can efficiently utilize comprehensive emotional information by combining verbal and non-verbal expression data. This system is composed of personalized skin-integrated facial interface (PSiFI) system that is self-powered, facile, stretchable, transparent, featuring a first bidirectional triboelectric strain and vibration sensor enabling us to sense and combine the verbal and non-verbal expression data for the first time. It is fully integrated with a data processing circuit for wireless data transfer allowing real-time emotion recognition to be performed. With the help of machine learning, various human emotion recognition tasks are done accurately in real time even while wearing mask and demonstrated digital concierge application in VR environment.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is characterized by altered emotional and behavioral responding following a traumatic event. In this article, we review the concepts of latent-state and model-based learning (i.e., learning and inferring abstract task representations) and discuss their relevance for clinical and neuroscience models of PTSD. Recent data demonstrate evidence for brain and behavioral biases in these learning processes in PTSD. These new data potentially recast excessive fear towards trauma cues as a problem in learning and updating abstract task representations, as opposed to traditional conceptualizations focused on stimulus-specific learning. Biases in latent-state and model-based learning may also be a common mechanism targeted in common therapies for PTSD. We highlight key knowledge gaps that need to be addressed to further elaborate how latent-state learning and its associated neurocircuitry mechanisms function in PTSD and how to optimize treatments to target these processes.

Families of patients with hematologic neoplasms involved in dignity therapy have exhibited a remarkable improvement in psychological well-being and family functioning. However, the applicability and generalizability of family participatory dignity therapy are limited as it is influenced by factors such as intervention time, place, and participants. Whether remote support from significant others is feasible and effective remains unknown. This study aimed to confirm the efficacy of significant others participating in remote dignity therapy (r-DT) on hope, dignity loss, meaning of life, and sense of stigma among patients with hematologic neoplasms as well as their significant others' depression and anxiety. A randomized, single-blinded, two-arm, parallel-group controlled trial. Participants included patients with hematologic neoplasms and their significant others, who were recruited from Fujian Medical University Union Hospital from May 2021 to January 2022. A total of 72 eligible participants (patients and significant others) agreed to participate, and were randomly assigned to an intervention group (n = 35) or a control group (n = 37). Each pair of participants in the intervention group participated in two or three conversations based on the online video function of the WeChat platform, performed by one therapist in accordance with a specific communication outline. To evaluate the effects of the intervention, we assessed the patients' degree of dignity loss, hope level, meaning of life, and sense of stigma, as well as their significant others' depression, anxiety, and intimacy at baseline (T0), 15 days (T1), 30 days (T2), and 60 days (T3), and compared the scores between the two groups after the completion of the intervention. The Generalized Estimation Equation Model (GEE) was used to examine the effects of time, group, and their interaction. The intervention group statistically significantly differed in lower dignity loss (t = 2.190, p = 0.032), higher hope level (t = -2.010, p = 0.049), and higher meaning of life (t = -2.066, p = 0.043) than the control group at T1. Regarding their significant others, the results of the comparison between the two groups showed that significant others in the intervention group had reduced levels of anxiety and depression at T1 and T2 (p < 0.05). The majority of patients (84.38 %) and significant others (75.00 %) provided positive evaluations of the program. The r-DT showed a short-term positive effect on decreasing patients' dignity loss and promoting patients' hope and meaning of life; among their significant others, it decreased anxiety and depression. Registered in the China Clinical Trial Registry on 17 March 2021(ChiCTR2100044374). Remote dignity therapy decreased patients' dignity loss and promoted their hope and meaning of life; among their significant others, it decreased anxiety and depression.

To examine the effectiveness of interventions to ameliorate burnout, secondary traumatic stress, and emotional exhaustion in nurses and midwives. The systematic review was completed with all available studies that reported data on the effect of interventions that targeted burnout using the outcome measures of the Professional Quality of Life scale (ProQOL), or the Maslach Burnout Inventory (MBI). We used a systematic review methodology, which included a meta-analysis. A total of 2103 articles resulted from the systematic search; 688 were removed as duplicates, and 1415 articles were reviewed by the title and abstract, of which 255 were eligible for full-text screening. Only 66 met the inclusion criteria and were included in the analysis. The final meta-analysis consisted of 33 reports divided into 12 studies for ProQOL and 21 studies for the MBI. The results provide an overall effect in studies using the ProQOL measurement was Z = 2.07 (P = 0.04) and a positive improvement mean difference of 9.32. The overall effect in studies using MBI was Z = 3.13 (P = 0.002) and a positive improvement mean difference of 6.58. Whilst most studies indicated a positive difference, the most effective interventions included clinical supervision or activities that addressed the personal physical and mental well-being of nurses. Less effective interventions were managerial interventions or ones that used a strictly educational approach.

• Explain the steps required for diagnosis of mental disorders in diagnostic handbooks.• Identify current procedures for classifying and reporting prolonged grief disorder. Prolonged grief disorder (PGD) was added to the 11th edition of the International Classification of Diseases in 2018 and to the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in its 2022 text revision. Thus, reporting and classifying PGD according to established guidelines has become fundamental for scientific research and clinical practice. Yet, PGD assessment instruments and criteria are still being developed and debated. The purpose of this article is to examine the adequacy of current procedures for classifying and reporting PGD in research and to suggest guidelines for future investigation and dissemination of knowledge. We outline the standard steps required for diagnosis and assessment of a mental disorder (notably, the administration of clinical interviews). In order to illustrate reporting about the presence/prevalence of PGD in recent scientific articles, we conducted a search of Scopus that identified 22 relevant articles published between 2019 and 2023. Our review of the literature shows that standard classification procedures are not (yet) followed. Prevalences of PGD are based on self-reported symptomatology, with rates derived from percentages of bereaved persons reaching a certain cutoff score on a questionnaire, without clinical interviewing. This likely results in systematic overestimation of prevalences. Nevertheless, the actual establishment of PGD prevalence was often stated in titles, abstracts, and results sections of articles. Further, the need for structured clinical interviews for diagnostic classification was frequently mentioned only among limitations in discussion sections-but was not highlighted. We conclude by providing guidelines for researching and reporting self-reported prolonged grief symptoms and the presence/prevalence of PGD.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental health recovery is acknowledged as a process of transformation and a way of living a meaningful life despite the presence of mental ill-health. Experiencing hope has been articulated as intrinsic to service users experience of a meaningful life. The social construction of mental illness and stigma are recognised as barriers to experiencing hope. Mental health professionals have responsibility to positively influence the experience of hope. WHAT THIS ARTICLE ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Individuals in mental health recovery experience hope as the embodiment of having a sense of possibility in life. Individuals' sense of possibility in life is underpinned by a belief and confidence that they will be ok. This belief is informed by 'feeling safe' and 'feeling connected'. This article generates an increased understanding of the dynamic relational processes that unpin hope generation. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING PRACTICE?: Mental health stakeholders need to be more explicit in exploring 'hope' and uncovering its therapeutic potential. Mental health practitioners need skill in enabling individuals to feel safe and connected while understanding its role in cultivating hope. ABSTRACT: Introduction The experience of hope is widely acknowledged and empirically supported as a key catalyst of mental health recovery. Lived experience accounts of hope are critical in accessing data on what has been termed a nebulous concept. This article is the second presentation of data from this study and provides further context to improve understanding of hope and optimise its therapeutic potential. Aim To explore how individuals describe and make sense of their experience of hope in mental health recovery. Method A qualitative Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) approach was used. Results This article explores the second of three experiential group themes: Hope as Having a sense of possibility 'I will be ok' which is informed by feeling safe and feeling connected. Discussion Having a sense of possibility is easier when basic needs are met and people feel connected to self, others and the universe. The use of creativity as a pathway to the imagination is positively experienced. The role of family, friends and healthcare professionals as hope reservoirs is critical. Finally, the framing of medication use emerged as significant. Implications for Practice It is important that all stakeholders appreciate the interpretation of hope and use the understanding and skill in harnessing its therapeutic potential.

In the American Academy of Neurology Annual Meeting Abstract "Comparison of the Effectiveness and Side Effects of Intravenous TPA Injection in Acute Stroke Patients Between 0 and 4.5 hours and the First 4.5 to 6 hours From the Onset of Symptoms (P7-5.018)" by Maghbooli et al.,

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Loneliness is common among young and middle-aged stroke survivors. It not only hinders the recovery of their neurological and physical functions but also increases the risk of stroke recurrence, disability, and even death. Improving the mental health of young and middle-aged stroke survivors is of utmost importance. However, previous research has not yet investigated the impact of interpersonal sensitivity and resilience on the relationship between stigma and feelings of loneliness. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study confirms that stigma has a positive impact on loneliness among young and middle-aged stroke survivors. Interpersonal sensitivity partially mediates the relationship between stigma and loneliness, and resilience plays a moderating role in the mediating mechanism. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses can formulate nursing interventions to reduce loneliness of young and middle-aged stroke survivors with the goals of improving stigma, reducing interpersonal sensitivity and cultivating resilience. ABSTRACT: Introduction Previous studies have not explored the impact of interpersonal sensitivity and resilience on the relationship between stigma and loneliness. However, improving the resilience of young and middle-aged stroke survivors and increasing their social participation is of great significance for reducing patients' loneliness of patients and promoting their physical and mental rehabilitation. Aims To investigate the influence of stigma, interpersonal sensitivity and resilience on loneliness among young and middle-aged stroke survivors. Methods A cross-sectional design was used to collect data. A total of 330 participants completed measures of stigma, resilience, interpersonal sensitivity and loneliness. The descriptive statistical approach, Pearson's correlation analysis and Hayes' PROCESS Macro Model 4 and 7 in regression analysis were used to analyse the available data. Results The results revealed that young and middle-aged stroke survivors' stigma, resilience, interpersonal sensitivity and loneliness were significantly correlated between every two variables, with coefficients ranging between -0.157 and 0.682. Interpersonal sensitivity played a partial mediating role in stigma and loneliness, accounting for 63.27% of the total effect; This process was moderated by resilience. Discussion Stigma positively predicts participants' loneliness. As a mediating mechanism with moderating, interpersonal sensitivity and resilience further explain how stigma affects loneliness. Implications for Practice Understanding this mechanism is of guiding significance to reduce loneliness of young and middle-aged stroke patients and promote their physical and mental rehabilitation.

Evidence-Based Medicine has little consideration for mechanisms and philosophers of science and medicine have recently made pleas to increase the place of mechanisms in the medical evidence hierarchy. However, in this debate the notions of mechanisms seem to be limited to 'mechanistic processes' and 'complex-systems mechanisms,' understood as 'componential causal systems'. I believe that this will not do full justice to how mechanisms are used in biological, psychological and social sciences and, consequently, in a more biopsychosocial approach to medicine. Here, I propose, following (Kuorikoski, 2009), to pay more attention to 'abstract forms of interaction' mechanisms. The present work scrutinized review articles on depression and medically unexplained pain, which are considered to be of multifactorial pathogenesis, for their use of mechanisms. In review articles on these disorders there seemed to be a range of uses between more 'abstract forms of interaction' and 'componential causal system' mechanisms. I therefore propose to expand the notions of mechanisms considered in medicine to include that of more 'abstract forms of interaction' to better explain and manage biopsychosocial disorders.

The Affective Embodiment Account posits that sensorimotor interactions play an important role in learning and processing concrete words whereas experiences from emotional states play an important role in learning and processing abstract words. Because of this, there should be greater enhancement of valence for abstract than for concrete words and therefore there should be an interaction between valence and concreteness. Although this prediction has been observed in a number of tasks, very few studies have looked specifically at memory. Three experiments are reported that assess whether valence interacts with concreteness in recognition. In Experiment 1, recognition of concrete words was better than abstract, but there was no difference as a function of whether the words were positive or negative and there was no interaction. Experiment 2 compared positive and neutral words and Experiment 3 compared negative and neutral words; in both, there was a concreteness effect but no effect of valence and no interaction. These results replicate previous findings that when positive and negative words are equated more fully, valence has no effect on recognition, and also suggest a limit on the scope of the Affective Embodiment Account.

Research has shown a protective association between social support and depression, depression among stroke patients, and health impacts of depression. Despite this, not much is known about the effect of social support on depression among stroke patients. This review aims to summarize the current research examining the association between social support and depression among stroke patients. A literature search was performed in PubMed to find original peer-reviewed journal articles from 2016 to 12 March 2023 that examined the association between social support and depression among stroke patients. The search terms were depression and "social support" and stroke, which lead to 172 articles. After abstract review, seven observational studies that studied the target association among stroke patients were selected. One additional study was found using PsycINFO as a complementary source with the same search strategy and criteria. Overall, a negative association was found between social support and depression among stroke patients in eight studies, with more social support leading to lower rates of depression post-stroke. The other study did not find a statistically significant association. Overall, the results of recent studies suggest that social support is negatively associated with depression among stroke patients. In most studies, this association was statistically significant. The findings suggest the importance of improving social support perceived by stroke patients in the prevention of depression after the occurrence of stroke.

Expectation is crucial for our enjoyment of music, yet the underlying generative mechanisms remain unclear. While sensory models derive predictions based on local acoustic information in the auditory signal, cognitive models assume abstract knowledge of music structure acquired over the long term. To evaluate these two contrasting mechanisms, we compared simulations from four computational models of musical expectancy against subjective expectancy and pleasantness ratings of over 1000 chords sampled from 739 US Billboard pop songs. Bayesian model comparison revealed that listeners' expectancy and pleasantness ratings were predicted by the independent, non-overlapping, contributions of cognitive and sensory expectations. Furthermore, cognitive expectations explained over twice the variance in listeners' perceived surprise compared to sensory expectations, suggesting a larger relative importance of long-term representations of music structure over short-term sensory-acoustic information in musical expectancy. Our results thus emphasize the distinct, albeit complementary, roles of cognitive and sensory expectations in shaping musical pleasure, and suggest that this expectancy-driven mechanism depends on musical information represented at different levels of abstraction along the neural hierarchy. This article is part of the theme issue 'Art, aesthetics and predictive processing: theoretical and empirical perspectives'.

A scoping review of studies published in the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic focused on individuals with pre-existing symptoms of depression, anxiety, and specified stressor-related disorders, with the objective of mapping the research conducted. (1) direct study of individuals with pre-existing depressive, anxiety, and/or specified stressor-related (i.e., posttraumatic stress, acute stress) disorders/issues; (2) focus on mental health-related pandemic effects, and; (3) direct study of mental health symptoms related to depression, anxiety, or psychological distress. Database-specific subject headings and natural language keywords were searched in Medline, Embase, APA PsycInfo, and Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) up to March 3, 2021. Review of potentially relevant studies was conducted by two independent reviewers and proceeded in two stages: (1) title and abstract review, and; (2) full paper review. Study details (i.e., location, design and methodology, sample or population, outcome measures, and key findings) were extracted from included studies by one reviewer and confirmed by the Principal Investigator. 66 relevant articles from 26 countries were identified. Most studies adopted a cross-sectional design and were conducted via online survey. About half relied on general population samples, with the remainder assessing special populations, primarily mental health patients. The most commonly reported pre-existing category of disorders or symptoms was depression, followed closely by anxiety. Most studies included depressive and anxiety symptoms as outcome measures and demonstrated increased vulnerability to mental health symptoms among individuals with a pre-existing mental health issue. These findings suggest that improved mental health supports are needed during the pandemic and point to future research needs, including reviews of other diagnostic categories and reviews of research published in subsequent years of the pandemic.

The Mini Cambridge-Exeter Repetitive Thoughts Scale (Mini-CERTS) captures constructive and unconstructive aspects of repetitive thinking, but there is a need to revise and improve it given its novelty. For this reason, we present a validation and factor analysis of the Spanish version of the Mini-CERTS. Given that it is important to take cultural issues into account in instrument adaptation, we also assess its measurement invariance across Spanish (

While sudden cardiac arrest (CA) survivors are at risk for developing psychiatric disorders, little is known about the impact of preexisting mental health conditions on long-term survival or postacute healthcare utilization. We examined the prevalence of preexisting psychiatric conditions in CA patients who survived hospital discharge, characterized incidence and reason for inpatient psychiatry consultation during these patients' acute hospitalizations, and determined the association of pre-CA depression and anxiety with hospital readmission rates and long-term survival. We hypothesized that prior depression or anxiety would be associated with higher hospital readmission rates and lower long-term survival. We conducted a retrospective cohort study including patients resuscitated from in- and out-of-hospital CA who survived both admission and discharge from a single hospital between January 1, 2010, and December 31, 2017. We identified patients from our prospective registry, then performed a structured chart review to abstract past psychiatric history, prescription medications for psychiatric conditions, and identify inpatient psychiatric consultations. We used administrative data to identify readmissions within 1 year and vital status through December 31, 2020. We used multivariable Cox regressions controlling for patient demographics, medical comorbidities, discharge Cerebral Performance Category and disposition, depression, and anxiety history to predict long-term survival and hospital readmission. We included 684 subjects. Past depression or anxiety was noted in 24% ( Depression is an independent risk factor for hospital readmission in CA survivors.

Classical psychometric approaches in social science measure individuals' tendency to experience empathy and compassion. Using abstract questionnaire items, they place high demand on subjects' capacity to introspect, memorize, and generalize the corresponding emotions. We employed a Socio-affective Video Task (SoVT)-an alternative approach that measures situationally elicited emotions-and assessed its predictive power over prosocial behavior against classical questionnaires in a sample of Israeli university students. We characterized the conceptual embedding of the SoVT concerning other measures of prosocial affect and cognition, and tested group identification as an alternative precursor to prosocial behavior. Eighty participants rated their reactions to videos that presented the suffering of others or everyday scenes on scales of negative affect (providing a proxy for elicited empathy) and compassion. We then administered classical questionnaires that target empathy (the Interpersonal Reactivity Index) and compassion (the Compassionate Love Scale), as well as measures of hypothetical and real-life helping and prosocial attitudes-including conflict attitudes and intergroup bias. While compassion ratings in the SoVT failed to predict prosociality more accurately than classical questionnaires, the SoVT empathy index succeeded and correlated strongly with other precursors of prosociality. These results support video-based situational assessment as an implicit and robust alternative in the measurement of empathy-related processes.

Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) allows untargeted identification of a broad range of pathogens, including rare or novel microorganisms. Despite the recognition of mNGS as a valuable diagnostic tool for infections, the most relevant indications for this innovative strategy remain poorly defined. We aimed to assess the determinants of positivity and clinical utility of mNGS. In this observational study, we prospectively performed short-read shotgun metagenomics analysis as a second-line test (in cases of negative first-line test or when the symptoms were not fully explained by initial positive results) or as a first-line test in life-threatening situations requiring urgent non-targeted pathogen identification at the Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital (Paris, France). All sample types, clinical indications, and patient populations were included. Samples were accompanied by a mandatory form completed by the senior clinician or pathologist, on which the clinical level of suspected infection (defined as high or low) was indicated. We assessed the variables (gender, age, immune status, initial suspicion of infection, indication, and sample type) associated with mNGS pathogen detection using odds ratios (ORs) from multivariate logistic regression. Additional investigations were carried out using specific PCR or culture techniques, to confirm positive mNGS results, or when infectious suspicion was particularly high despite a negative mNGS result. Between Oct 29, 2019, and Nov 7, 2022, we analysed 742 samples collected from 523 patients. The initial suspicion of infection was either high (n=470, 63%) or low (n=272, 37%). Causative or possibly causative pathogens were detected in 117 (25%) samples from patients with high initial suspicion of infection, versus nine (3%) samples analysed to rule out infection (OR 9·1, 95% CI 4·6-20·4; p<0·0001). We showed that mNGS had higher odds of detecting a causative or possibly causative pathogenic virus on CNS biopsies than CSF samples (4·1, 1·7-10·7; p=0·0025) and in samples from immunodeficient compared with immunocompetent individuals (2·4, 1·4-4·1; p=0·0013). Concordance with conventional confirmatory tests results was 103 (97%) of 106, when mNGS detected causative or possibly causative pathogens. Altogether, among 231 samples investigated by both mNGS and subsequent specific tests, discordant results were found in 69 (30%) samples, of which 58 (84%) were mNGS positive and specific tests negative, and 11 (16%) mNGS negative and specific tests positive. Major determinants of pathogen detection by mNGS are immune status and initial level of suspicion of infection. These findings will contribute, along with future studies, to refining the positioning of mNGS in diagnostic and treatment decision-making algorithms. Necker-Enfants Malades Hospital and Institut Pasteur. For the French translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Loneliness is a significant public health concern due to its detrimental impact on health and wellbeing. Despite people with disability reporting higher levels of loneliness than the general population, there has been little research into how this is affecting their health and wellbeing. In light of this, the aim of our study was to scope both the existing evidence about the health and wellbeing outcomes associated with loneliness for people with disability, as well as the conceptual frameworks and measures utilised in this field of research. To conduct this scoping review, we followed the methodology outlined by JBI and searched MEDLINE, Scopus, Informit, Embase, and Web of Science for peer-reviewed, English-language articles published between 1 January 2000 and 8 February 2023. Two independent reviewers completed screening, full-text review and data extraction, with consensus sought at each stage. Data were analysed using content analysis and presented both numerically and narratively. Out of the initial 1602 publications identified in the scoping review, only nine were included after duplicate removal, title and abstract screening, and full-text review. This limited number of studies, with the earliest study one published in 2015, represents a key finding. Eight of the nine studies were quantitative, and all were conducted in high income countries. Most of these studies utilised a version of the University of Los Angles Loneliness Scale to measure loneliness and addressed specific impairment groups. Notably, most of the studies identified associations between loneliness and health and wellbeing outcomes for people with disability. This scoping review highlights the current scarcity of studies examining the effect that loneliness has on the health and wellbeing outcomes of people with disability. As most of the reviewed studies relied on loneliness measures designed for individuals without disability, they potentially overlook the unique life experiences of people with disability. Given that loneliness is an international public health concern, it is imperative that people with disability are not left behind or overlooked in efforts to address the impact of loneliness on health and wellbeing.

The paper explores the concept of truth in Bion's theory and in the post-Bionian context of the analytic field. Truth is addressed on three levels: epistemological, metapsychological, and clinical. Bion criticizes positivism in psychoanalysis, and the same vertex when it appears in psychoanalysis itself, stating that the search for truth at all costs is similar to the arrogance and stupidity of the psychotic part of the personality. He revolutionizes the analytic concept of truth by orienting it to the function of the emotional linking between analyst and patient rather than to content. Post-Bionian analytic theory further develops these concepts. In a field or radically intersubjective perspective, the author emphasizes the shift from an "I/you" perspective to a "we" perspective. The treatment is less about the abstract search for supposed truths and more about the truth being expressed in the process of emotional and affective attunement.

Self-help interventions are beneficial for patients with diabetes; however, related studies have reported conflicting results. To date, no review has examined the effect of self-help interventions on diabetes outcomes. To systematically evaluate the effects of self-help interventions on psychological, glycemic, and behavioral outcomes in patients with diabetes. A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Five databases-PubMed, CINAHL, Embase, PsycINFO, and ClinicalTrials.gov-were searched from 1996, 1937, 1947, 1887, and 2000, respectively, to 2 June 2023. Studies that employed a randomized controlled trial design, enrolled adults with diabetes, implemented a self-help intervention as the main or an additional intervention, and reported the outcomes of interest were included. Studies providing self-help interventions to patients with gestational diabetes or pregnant women were excluded. The primary outcomes were diabetes distress, depression, and anxiety, and the secondary outcomes were glycemic and behavioral outcomes (self-management behavior, self-efficacy, and quality of life). Hedges' g and the associated 95 % confidence interval (CI) were calculated using a random-effects model to obtain the pooled estimates of short-, mid-, and long-term effects of self-help interventions. Heterogeneity was explored using I Of 17 eligible studies, 16 provided data for meta-analysis. We included 3083 patients with diabetes; the majority were women (61.95 %), and their average age was 55.13 years. Self-help interventions exerted significant short-term effects on diabetes distress (g = -0.363; 95 % CI = -0.554, -0.173), depression (g = -0.465; 95 % CI = -0.773, -0.156), anxiety (g = -0.295; 95 % CI = -0.523, -0.068), glycosylated hemoglobin level (g = -0.497; 95 % CI = -0.791, -0.167), self-efficacy (g = 0.629; 95 % CI = 0.060, 1.197), and quality of life (g = 0.413; 95 % CI = 0.104, 0.721; g = 0.182; 95 % CI = 0.031, 0.333; and g = 0.469; 95 % CI = 0.156, 0.783 for overall, physical, and mental domains, respectively). We also noted significant mid-term effects of self-help interventions on diabetes distress (g = -0.195; 95 % CI = -0.374, -0.016), self-management behavior (g = 0.305; 95 % CI = 0.155, 0.454), and overall quality of life (g = 0.562; 95 % CI = 0.315, 0.810). The certainty of evidence ranged from high to very low certainty for the measured outcomes. Self-help interventions may have some positive effects on diabetes distress, anxiety, self-management behavior, and quality of life. This review was registered in PROSPERO (CRD42022329905). This meta-analysis demonstrated that self-help interventions might improve psychological and behavioral outcomes in patients with diabetes.

No Abstract.

There is growing evidence that music can induce a wide range of visual imagery. To date, however, there have been few thorough investigations into the specific content of music-induced visual imagery, and whether listeners exhibit consistency within themselves and with one another regarding their visual imagery content. We recruited an online sample (N = 353) who listened to three orchestral film music excerpts representing happy, tender, and fearful emotions. For each excerpt, listeners rated how much visual imagery they were experiencing and how vivid it was, their liking of and felt emotional intensity in response to the excerpt, and, finally, described the content of any visual imagery they may have been experiencing. Further, they completed items assessing a number of individual differences including musical training and general visual imagery ability. Of the initial sample, 254 respondents completed the survey again three weeks later. A thematic analysis of the content descriptions revealed three higher-order themes of prominent visual imagery experiences: Storytelling (imagined locations, characters, actions, etc.), Associations (emotional experiences, abstract thoughts, and memories), and References (origins of the visual imagery, e.g., film and TV). Although listeners demonstrated relatively low visual imagery consistency with each other, levels were higher when considering visual imagery content within individuals across timepoints. Our findings corroborate past literature regarding music's capacity to encourage narrative engagement. It, however, extends it (a) to show that such engagement is highly visual and contains other types of imagery to a lesser extent, (b) to indicate the idiosyncratic tendencies of listeners' imagery consistency, and (c) to reveal key factors influencing consistency levels (e.g., vividness of visual imagery and emotional intensity ratings in response to music). Further implications are discussed in relation to visual imagery's purported involvement in music-induced emotions and aesthetic appeal.

WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN?: SDM improves clinical outcomes by increasing attendance and treatment adherence in adolescents diagnosed with depression. SDM could reduce treatment disagreements and enhance consumers' and their families' satisfaction with mental healthcare services. Healthcare professionals are a critical part of SDM. However, MHPs' practices of SDM in the daily management of adolescents diagnosed with depression need to be clarified. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: From the viewpoints of MHPs, SDM was not extensively applied in the daily management of adolescents diagnosed with depression. MHPs who trust their consumers and have received training related to SDM are more likely to practice SDM in the daily management of adolescents diagnosed with depression. The positive preferences for providing information and family involvement in treatment decision-making are facilitators; working in closed inpatient mental health wards and open inpatient mental health wards are hindering factors for MHPs' practices of SDM. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: MHPs should encourage information sharing with consumers and their family members to help them participate in treatment decision-making actively. A trusting and friendly therapeutic relationship with consumers should be maintained in the daily management of adolescents diagnosed with depression. SDM-related training should be encouraged for MHPs to promote widespread SDM. INTRODUCTION: Shared decision-making (SDM) is an ideal model for a therapeutic relationship that can improve health outcomes. Healthcare professionals are a critical part of SDM, and they play an important role in the practices of SDM in the clinical setting. Evidence suggests that adolescents diagnosed with depression can benefit substantially from SDM. However, mental health professionals' (MHPs) practices of SDM for adolescents diagnosed with depression in China are not well-documented. This study aimed to investigate the practices of SDM for adolescents diagnosed with depression from the viewpoints of MHPs in China. In this cross-sectional study, we recruited a total of 581 MHPs by convenience sampling. The Shared Decision-Making Questionnaire-Physician Version (SDM-Q-Doc) was used to evaluate the MHPs' practices of SDM for adolescents diagnosed with depression. The mean SDM-Q-Doc was 80.47 (±16.31). Within the six specific decision-making situations, most MHPs selected non-SDM (52.7%-71.6%). Substantial numbers of respondents believed that MHPs made the final decision, especially with regard to the development (37%) and adjustment of medication regimens (42%). The practice of SDM was predicted by MHPs' preference for providing information, their trust in consumers, preference for family involvement in treatment decision-making, working in an outpatient clinic and receiving SDM training (F = 23.582; p = .000; R Although the MHPs' self-rated score of SDM-Q-Doc was high, SDM was not extensively applied in the daily management of adolescents diagnosed with depression. Thus, SDM needs to be further promoted by enhancing SDM-related training for MHPs, thereby actively promoting the involvement of families, facilitating the information sharing for consumers and families, and building an active, trusting consumer-practitioner relationship. MHPs should prioritise information sharing with consumers and families, as well as build trusting and friendly therapeutic relationships. Family involvement in treatment decisions should be encouraged when adolescents diagnosed with depression are in need. Actively participating in training related to SDM is also important. Future high-quality evidence is still needed to explore the facilitators and barriers to SDM practices from a tripartite perspective of MHPs, adolescents diagnosed with depression and their families.

This article integrates and advances the scope of research on the role of mental time travel in bolstering the self. We propose that imagining the self in the future (prospection) or in the past (retrospection) highlights central and positive self-aspects. Thus, bringing to mind one's future or past broadens the perceived bases of self-integrity and offers a route to self-affirmation. In reviewing corresponding research programs on self-prospection and nostalgia, we illustrate that mental time travel serves to affirm the self in terms of self-esteem, coherence, and control. Mental time travel could be implemented as a source of self-affirmation for facilitating coping and behavior change in several domains such as relationships, health, education, and organizational contexts. People can mentally travel to their future or to their past. When people imagine what they will be like in the future, or what they were like in the past, they tend to think about themselves in terms of the important and positive attributes that they possess. Thinking about themselves in such an affirming way expands and consolidates their self-views. This broader image of themselves can increase self-esteem (the extent to which one likes who they are), coherence (the extent to which one perceives life as meaningful), and control (the extent to which one feels capable of initiating and pursuing goals or effecting desirable outcomes). Mental time travel, then, has favorable or affirming consequences for one's self-views. These consequences can be harnessed to modify one's behavior in such life domains as relationships, health, education, and work.

There is a significant research gap in the field of universal, selective, and indicated prevention interventions for mental health promotion and the prevention of mental disorders. Barriers to closing the research gap include scarcity of skilled human resources, large inequities in resource distribution and utilization, and stigma. To assess the effectiveness of delivery by primary workers of interventions for the promotion of mental health and universal prevention, and for the selective and indicated prevention of mental disorders or symptoms of mental illness in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). To examine the impact of intervention delivery by primary workers on resource use and costs. We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, Global Index Medicus, PsycInfo, WHO ICTRP, and ClinicalTrials.gov from inception to 29 November 2021. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of primary-level and/or community health worker interventions for promoting mental health and/or preventing mental disorders versus any control conditions in adults and children in LMICs. Standardized mean differences (SMD) or mean differences (MD) were used for continuous outcomes, and risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous data, using a random-effects model. We analyzed data at 0 to 1, 1 to 6, and 7 to 24 months post-intervention. For SMDs, 0.20 to 0.49 represented small, 0.50 to 0.79 moderate, and ≥ 0.80 large clinical effects. We evaluated the risk of bias (RoB) using Cochrane RoB2. Description of studies We identified 113 studies with 32,992 participants (97 RCTs, 19,570 participants in meta-analyses) for inclusion. Nineteen RCTs were conducted in low-income countries, 27 in low-middle-income countries, 2 in middle-income countries, 58 in upper-middle-income countries and 7 in mixed settings. Eighty-three RCTs included adults and 30 RCTs included children. Cadres of primary-level workers employed primary care health workers (38 studies), community workers (71 studies), both (2 studies), and not reported (2 studies). Interventions were universal prevention/promotion in 22 studies, selective in 36, and indicated prevention in 55 RCTs. Risk of bias The most common concerns over risk of bias were performance bias, attrition bias, and reporting bias. Intervention effects 'Probably', 'may', or 'uncertain' indicates 'moderate-', 'low-', or 'very low-'certainty evidence. *Certainty of the evidence (using GRADE) was assessed at 0 to 1 month post-intervention as specified in the review protocol. In the abstract, we did not report results for outcomes for which evidence was missing or very uncertain. Adults Promotion/universal prevention, compared to usual care: - probably slightly reduced anxiety symptoms (MD -0.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.27 to -0.01; 1 trial, 158 participants) - may slightly reduce distress/PTSD symptoms (SMD -0.24, 95% CI -0.41 to -0.08; 4 trials, 722 participants) Selective prevention, compared to usual care: - probably slightly reduced depressive symptoms (SMD -0.69, 95% CI -1.08 to -0.30; 4 trials, 223 participants) Indicated prevention, compared to usual care: - may reduce adverse events (1 trial, 547 participants) - probably slightly reduced functional impairment (SMD -0.12, 95% CI -0.39 to -0.15; 4 trials, 663 participants) Children Promotion/universal prevention, compared to usual care: - may improve the quality of life (SMD -0.25, 95% CI -0.39 to -0.11; 2 trials, 803 participants) - may reduce adverse events (1 trial, 694 participants) - may slightly reduce depressive symptoms (MD -3.04, 95% CI -6 to -0.08; 1 trial, 160 participants) - may slightly reduce anxiety symptoms (MD -2.27, 95% CI -3.13 to -1.41; 1 trial, 183 participants) Selective prevention, compared to usual care: - probably slightly reduced depressive symptoms (SMD 0, 95% CI -0.16 to -0.15; 2 trials, 638 participants) - may slightly reduce anxiety symptoms (MD 4.50, 95% CI -12.05 to 21.05; 1 trial, 28 participants) - probably slightly reduced distress/PTSD symptoms (MD -2.14, 95% CI -3.77 to -0.51; 1 trial, 159 participants) Indicated prevention, compared to usual care: - decreased slightly functional impairment (SMD -0.29, 95% CI -0.47 to -0.10; 2 trials, 448 participants) - decreased slightly depressive symptoms (SMD -0.18, 95% CI -0.32 to -0.04; 4 trials, 771 participants) - may slightly reduce distress/PTSD symptoms (SMD 0.24, 95% CI -1.28 to 1.76; 2 trials, 448 participants). The evidence indicated that prevention interventions delivered through primary workers - a form of task-shifting - may improve mental health outcomes. Certainty in the evidence was influenced by the risk of bias and by substantial levels of heterogeneity. A supportive network of infrastructure and research would enhance and reinforce this delivery modality across LMICs.

Movement as a Neuromodulator: How Physical Activity Influences the Physiology of Adolescent Depression 

Narcissistic personality traits have been theorised to negatively affect depressive symptoms, therapeutic alliance, and treatment outcome, even in the absence of narcissistic personality disorder. We aimed to examine how the dimensional narcissistic facets of admiration and rivalry affect depressive symptoms across treatment modalities in two transdiagnostic samples. We did a naturalistic, observational prospective cohort study in two independent adult samples in Germany: one sample pooled from an inpatient psychiatric clinic and an outpatient treatment service offering cognitive behavioural treatment (CBT), and one sample from an inpatient clinic providing psychoanalytic interactional therapy (PIT). Inpatients treated with CBT had an affective or psychotic disorder. For the other two sites, data from all service users were collected. We examined the effect of core narcissism and its facets admiration and rivalry, measured by Narcissistic Admiration and Rivalry Questionnaire-short version, on depressive symptoms, measured by Beck's Depression Inventory and Patient Health Questionnaire-Depression Scale, at baseline and after treatment in patients treated with CBT and PIT. Primary analyses were regression models, predicting baseline and post-treatment depression severity from core narcissism and its facets. Mediation analysis was done in the outpatient CBT group for the effect of the therapeutic alliance on the association between narcissism and depression severity after treatment. The sample included 2371 patients (1423 [60·0%] female and 948 [40·0%] male; mean age 33·13 years [SD 13·19; range 18-81), with 517 inpatients and 1052 outpatients in the CBT group, and 802 inpatients in the PIT group. Ethnicity data were not collected. Mean treatment duration was 300 days (SD 319) for CBT and 67 days (SD 26) for PIT. Core narcissism did not predict depression severity before treatment in either group, but narcissistic rivalry was associated with higher depressive symptom load at baseline (β 2·47 [95% CI 1·78 to 3·12] for CBT and 1·05 [0·54 to 1·55] for PIT) and narcissistic admiration showed the opposite effect (-2·02 [-2·62 to -1·41] for CBT and -0·64 [-1·11 to -0·17] for PIT). Poorer treatment response was predicted by core narcissism (β 0·79 [0·10 to 1·47]) and narcissistic rivalry (0·89 [0·19 to 1·58]) in CBT, whereas admiration showed no effect. No effect of narcissism on treatment outcome was discernible in PIT. Therapeutic alliance mediated the effect of narcissism on post-treatment depression severity in the outpatient CBT sample. As narcissism affects depression severity before and after treatment with CBT across psychiatric disorders, even in the absence of narcissistic personality disorder, the inclusion of dimensional assessments of narcissism should be considered in future research and clinical routines. The relevance of the therapeutic alliance and therapeutic strategy could be used to guide treatment approaches. IZKF Münster. For the German translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

The ability to acquire positive emotions from words is essential to psychological well-being. How word concreteness affects the process of positive emotion acquisition remains unknown. Here, using an evaluation conditioning paradigm, participants learned the association between pseudowords and concrete/abstract and positive/neutral words. Behavior and event-related potential data were recorded while participants performed emotional recognition tasks. Behavioral results showed that, for neutral words, concrete words were more accurate than abstract words, whereas for positive words, abstract words were more accurate than concrete words. Moreover, N1 and P2 amplitudes in the pseudowords were modulated by interacting word emotion and concreteness. Specifically, pseudowords associated with neutral concrete words elicited larger N1 and P2 amplitudes than pseudowords associated with neutral abstract words. Conversely, N1 and P2 amplitudes in pseudowords associated with positive abstract words were not significant compared to those in positive concrete words. Additionally, an emotional effect was observed when pseudowords were associated with abstract words, showing higher P3 amplitude for the pseudowords associated with positive abstract words than neutral abstract words. No significant effects were found for the pseudowords associated with positive abstract or concrete words. These findings suggest that association learning may influence the early attention processing of emotion acquisition from words, and emotional information of positive abstract words might boost positive emotion acquisition, thereby eliminating the acquisition advantage from positive concrete words.

Generally, infertile men hide their depression, which can threaten their health and lower their quality of life. Given the role of depression and its impact on people's health, this systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to investigate the prevalence of depression in infertile men. This research is a systematic review and meta-analysis based on preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA). Using the keywords of "Depression", "Emotional Depression", "Infertility", "Prevalence", and "Epidemiology", all English language articles were searched in international databases (PubMed, Cochran library, Web of sciences, Scopus, Embase, PsyINFO, and Google scholar) by two reviewers independently and without considering the time limit until September 2022. Title, abstract, full text and quality of each study were evaluated by two reviewers independently using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale checklist. The results were analyzed using programming language and R software, and I Twenty-two studies were included in the systematic part of this study; and 8 different measurement tools were used to identify depression. Then, based on the possibility of meta-analysis, 18 studies were included in 4 subgroups. Given the heterogeneity of the articles, random effect model was used. The overall prevalence of depression in infertile men was 18.30%. The lowest and highest overall prevalence of depression in men was reported to be 14.04% and 23.63% in the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (ZDS) and the Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS) tools, respectively. The overall prevalence of depression among infertile men was reported to be 18.55% and 16.75% using the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) tools, respectively. Based on the findings of this study, the significant prevalence of depression in infertile men requires a specific attention and planning. The study revealed varying degrees of depression among infertile men, emphasizing the importance of assessing their mental health, specifically in terms of depression, during infertility treatments as a hidden variable. It is strongly recommended to develop training programs for health service providers to effectively utilize diagnostic tools in this particular field.

Trazodone is a serotonin antagonist/reuptake inhibitor medication commonly used for anxiety in dogs. Therapy with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in humans is associated with bleeding disorders and increased arrhythmogenesis. To evaluate markers of primary hemostasis and corrected QT (cQT) interval in dogs before and after oral administration of standard dosages of trazodone or placebo. Fifteen apparently healthy, client-owned dogs. A single-blinded, randomized placebo-controlled crossover study was performed. Dogs were administered trazodone (5 to 7.5 mg/kg PO Q12h) or placebo. [Correction added after first online publication on 14 October 2023. In the abstract (methods) section (57.5 mg/kg PO Q12h) changed as (5 to 7.5 mg/kg PO Q12h).] Buccal mucosal bleeding time (BMBT), platelet count, platelet aggregation via Plateletworks, PFA-100 closure time and cQT interval were measured. A Shapiro-Wilk test was performed followed by either a paired t test or a Wilcoxon signed-rank test. No significant difference was detected in the BMBT, PFA-100 closure times, platelet counts, and cQT interval between trazodone or placebo. However, using Plateletworks, there was a significant decrease in platelet aggregation after administration of trazodone (95%; 81-97 vs 62%; 39-89, P = .002) and not placebo (95%; 81-97 vs 91%; 81-96, P = .21). It is unknown if this represents a clinically relevant change or if dogs with preexisting impairment in primary hemostasis or receiving higher dosages or longer durations of trazodone could have a more substantial change in hemostatic variables.

Taking a dimensional view, this study aims to understand, among professional caregivers after patient deaths, the symptom distribution and development of the short-term bereavement reaction (SBR) network and the node-level links between the meaning of patient death (MPD) and the SBR network. A cross-sectional secondary analysis was conducted with existing data from 220 Chinese urban hospital nurses and physicians who experienced the most recent patient death within a month. MPD was measured by the 10 formative items of the meaning of patient death model, and SBR was measured by the Short-term Bereavement Reactions Subscale of the Professional Bereavement Scale. Both Gaussian graphical network analysis and Bayesian network analysis were applied to the SBR network, and Gaussian graphical network analysis was used to estimate the MPD-SBR network. Frustrated and guilty are central nodes in the regularized partial correlation SBR network. Meanwhile, a traumatic event and failure at work are important bridge nodes between the MPD network and the SBR network. In the Bayesian SBR network, moved by the family's understanding, moved by the family's gratitude and sad mainly drive other nodes. After a patient death, nurses' and physicians' SBR networks feature professional-dimension symptoms at their core, while they follow 'personal to professional' and 'concrete to abstract' symptom development patterns. The personal meaning of a traumatic event and the professional meaning of a failure at work play key roles in bridging the MPD and SBR networks, and meanings of both the personal and the professional dimensions can link to professional-dimension reactions. The manuscript followed the STROBE checklist for reporting cross-sectional studies. No patient or public contribution.

Emotional support is key to improve older adults' subjective health, and psychological, social and emotional well-being. However, many older adults living in the community lack emotional support, increasing the risk for loneliness, depression, anxiety, potentially avoidable healthcare use and costs, and premature death. Multiple intersecting factors may influence emotional support of older adults in the community, but these are poorly understood. Studies have focused on specific populations (e.g., older adults with depression, cancer). Although relevant, these studies may not capture modifiable factors for the wider and more diverse population of older adults living in the community. Our scoping review will address these important gaps. We will identify and synthesize the evidence on factors that influence emotional support of older adults in the community. We will use the Johanna Briggs Institute updated methodological guidance for the conduct of scoping reviews to guide our review process. We will search MEDLINE, EMBASE, APA Psycinfo, CINAHL, Dissertations and Theses Global, and Scopus from inception. We will include studies published in English, examining factors influencing emotional support of older adults residing in community, without restrictions on the study design or year of publication. We will also include gray literature (dissertations and reports). Two independent reviewers will conduct title, abstract, and full-text screening, as well as risk of bias assessment, using validated quality appraisal tools based on study designs. Discrepancies will be resolved by consensus. The primary reviewer will extract the data from all studies, and the second reviewer will check the extractions of all the studies. We will use descriptive statistics and narrative synthesis for analysis. Family/friend caregivers and older adults involved as an advisory group will help with explaining the findings in terms of whether associations observed reflect their experiences and reality. We will analyze the discussion and generate themes, and summarize in a narrative form. This scoping review may identify factors that could be modified or mitigated to improve emotional support provision for older adults residing in community. The knowledge will inform the development of tailored interventions directed to older adults and their caregivers. https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/4TAEB (associated project link: osf.io/6y48t).

Human cognition relies on embodiment as a fundamental mechanism. Virtual avatars allow users to experience the adaptation, control, and perceptual illusion of alternative bodies. Although virtual bodies have medical applications in motor rehabilitation and therapeutic interventions, their potential for learning anatomy and medical communication remains underexplored. For learners and patients, anatomy, procedures, and medical imaging can be abstract and difficult to grasp. Experiencing anatomies, injuries, and treatments virtually through one's own body could be a valuable tool for fostering understanding. This work investigates the impact of avatars displaying anatomy and injuries suitable for such medical simulations. We ran a user study utilizing a skeleton avatar and virtual injuries, comparing to a healthy human avatar as a baseline. We evaluate the influence on embodiment, well-being, and presence with self-report questionnaires, as well as motor performance via an arm movement task. Our results show that while both anatomical representation and injuries increase feelings of eeriness, there are no negative effects on embodiment, well-being, presence, or motor performance. These findings suggest that virtual representations of anatomy and injuries are suitable for medical visualizations targeting learning or communication without significantly affecting users' mental state or physical control within the simulation.

Perioperative anxiety is common. The relationship between anxiety and patient satisfaction with anaesthesia is still under debate. We assessed the prevalence and different causes of anaesthesia-related fears leading to perioperative anxiety and its association with patient satisfaction. A multiple-time validated, psychometrically developed questionnaire assessing the presence of anxiety, causes of fear, and different dimensions of patient satisfaction was sent to patients after discharge. The clinical data were obtained from a previous study. The sample size was calculated to recruit a minimum of 300 completed questionnaires. Statistical analyses included multivariate logistic regression models. Complete data were available for 474 of the 600 patients recruited for the study (response rate: 79%). A total of 141 patients (30%) reported anxiety regarding anaesthesia before hospital admission. The prevalence of anxiety was significantly associated with patient age (< 54 years: n = 196, prevalence = 37%; > 54 years: n = 263, prevalence = 24%; p = 0.002), female sex (female: n = 242, prevalence 39%; male: n = 223, prevalence 20%; p < 0.001), and surgical speciality (gynaecology (n = 61, prevalence = 49%), otolaryngology (n = 56, prevalence = 46%); p < 0.001). Fear of not awakening from anaesthesia (n = 44, prevalence = 32%, SD 45.8) and developing postoperative nausea or vomiting (n = 42, prevalence = 30%, SD 46.0) were the most reported anaesthesia-related causes of fear. Anxiety was associated with impaired overall patient satisfaction (mean dissatisfaction score 15%, versus 23%, SD 16.3 in the anxious group, SD 16.3, p < 0.001), especially regarding the dimensions "information and involvement in decision-making" (14% of deficits stated in the non-anxious group compared to 23% in the anxious group, p < 0.001), "respect and trust" (2% vs 6.26%, p < 0.001) and "continuity of care" (50% vs 57%, p < 0.015). Patient-reported anaesthesia-related anxiety is common and may affect important outcome parameters such as patient satisfaction. Abstract presented in e-poster format at Euroanaesthesia 2023, June 3-5, Glasgow.

Delirium commonly occurs in hospitalized adults. Psychiatric disorders such as anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can co-occur with delirium, and can be recognized and managed by clinicians using recommendations found in methodological guiding statements called Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPGs). The specific aims of this review were to: [1] synthesize CPG recommendations for the diagnosis and management of anxiety, depression, and PTSD in adults with delirium in acute care; and [2] identify recent published literature in addition to those identified and reported in a 2017 review on delirium CPG recommendations and quality. MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and 21 sites on the Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies listed in the Health Grey Matters Lite tool were searched from inception to February 12, 2021. Selected CPGs focused on delirium in acute care, were endorsed by an international scientific society or governmental organization, and contained at least one recommendation for the diagnosis or management of delirium. Two reviewers independently extracted data in duplicate and independently assessed CPG quality using the AGREE-II tool. Narrative synthesis of CPG recommendations was conducted. Title and abstract screening was completed on 7611 records. Full-text review was performed on 197 CPGs. The final review included 27 CPGs of which 7 (26%) provided recommendations for anxiety (4/7, 57%), depression (5/7, 71%), and PTSD (1/7, 14%) in delirium. Twenty CPGs provided recommendations for delirium only (e.g., assess patient regularly, avoid use of benzodiazepines). Recommendations for the diagnosis of psychiatric disorders with delirium included using evidence-based diagnostic criteria and standardized screening tools. Recommendations for the management of psychiatric disorders with delirium included pharmacological (e.g., anxiolytics, antidepressants) and non-pharmacological interventions (e.g., promoting patient orientation using clocks). Guideline quality varied: the lowest was Applicability (mean = 36%); the highest Clarity of Presentation (mean = 76%). There are few available evidence-based CPGs to facilitate appropriate diagnosis and management of anxiety, depression, and PTSD in patients with delirium in acute care. Future guideline developers should incorporate evidence-based recommendations on the diagnosis and management of these psychiatric disorders in delirium. Registration number: PROSPERO (CRD42021237056).

This paper aims to motivate research on emotion regulation success in naturalistic settings. We define emotion regulation success as achieving one's emotion regulation goal and differentiate it from related concepts (i.e., maladaptive regulation and dysregulation). As goals vary across individuals and situations, it is insufficient to conceptualize emotion regulation success as maximizing positive affect and minimizing negative affect. Instead, emotion regulation success can be measured through novel approaches targeting the achievement of emotion regulation goals. In addition to utilizing novel data analytic tools (e.g., response surface analyses), future research can make use of informant reports and observing ambulatory behavior or physiology. Considering emotion regulation goals when measuring daily emotion regulation success has the potential to answer key questions about personality, development, and mental health. People differ in how they want to feel in daily situations (e.g., excited) and why they want to feel that way (e.g., to make others feel better), depending on factors such as culture or age. Although people manage their emotions to reach these goals, most research assessing emotion regulation success has not taken individual goals into account. When assessing if people successfully regulate their emotions, most research in daily life has been focused on whether people feel more positive or less negative. To help study emotion regulation success in a more thoughtful and inclusive way, we propose a new approach to conceptualizing emotion regulation success that incorporates individual differences in what motivates people to regulate and discuss future research directions and applications.

During the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, as in past disasters and emergencies, nurses around the world play an important role. What is more, the unprecedented pressure exerted by the pandemic on healthcare systems in every country brings big challenges to nurses, which may affect their well-being, work efficacy and job satisfaction. The main objective of the presented studies was to describe anxiety factors related to the work of nurses during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic; to assess the intensity of coronavirus anxiety and job satisfaction experienced by nurses at that time; to assess predictors of job satisfaction of nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic; to assess the differences in the intensity of job satisfaction and coronavirus anxiety depending on the selected variables related to their experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic. Anonymous questionnaire surveys were conducted online among the participants between 23 June 2020 and 23 March 2022 in Poland. 433 nurses from 15 Polish provinces were included in the studies (age range 22-68; M = 41.63). Nursing seniority M = 18.6. The studies were based on: Satisfaction with Job Scale (SSP), Coronavirus Anxiety Scale (CAS), and a self-report structured questionnaire. The most respondents indicated that they were afraid of becoming infected with SARS-CoV-2 (25.4 %), transmitting infection to the family (22.4 %), becoming sick with COVID-19 and experiencing health complications (6.7 %) and of excessive work responsibilities and physical fatigue (6.5 %). Based on the bivariate correlation, it can be concluded that job satisfaction of the respondents during the COVID-19 pandemic was on an average level (M = 19.9); coronavirus anxiety was on an average level (M = 4.9), and stress at work was on a high level (M = 7.1). Coronavirus anxiety did not constitute statistically significant predictors of job satisfaction of subjects studied during the pandemic (SE = 0,048; β = 0,05; p = 0.942). Coronavirus anxiety wasn't associated with job satisfaction of nurses directly. Job satisfaction of nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic was likely to be shaped by a range of different factors. In Polish nurses coronavirus anxiety was average and wasn't associated with their job satisfaction.

Headaches are the most common complaints among pediatric populations. Determining the cause and appropriate treatment for headaches may be challenging and costly, and the impact of headaches on the lives of patients and their families is not well understood. A systematic literature review was conducted to examine what PROMs are currently used, and to identify quality of life (QoL) concepts important to children suffering from headaches and any known determinants of QoL. Embase, Medline, Web of Science, CINAHL, EBSCOhost, PsychINFO, Cochrane CENTRAL and Google Scholar were searched from their inception through to June 2021. Studies investigating QoL, using a validated outcome measure in pediatric patients with headaches, were included. Relevant studies were identified through title and abstract screening and full text review by two independent reviewers. A citation review of included studies was performed. QoL concepts were extracted from the outcome measures that were used in each study to develop a preliminary conceptual model of QoL in children suffering from headaches. Determinants of QoL were also identified and categorized. A total of 5421 studies were identified in the search. Title and abstract screening resulted in the exclusion of 5006 studies. Among the 415 studies included for full text review, 56 were eligible for final analysis. A citation review resulted in the addition of five studies. Most studies were conducted in high-income countries and included a patient-sample accordingly (n = 45 studies). Sixteen different PROMs were identified in the included studies, of which the PedsQL was used the most often (n = 38 studies). The most common health concepts reported were physical functioning (n = 113 items), social and psychological wellbeing (N = 117, n = 91 resp.). Twenty-five unique determinants of QoL were extracted from the included studies. There is a need for a condition-specific PROM to facilitate the measurement of QoL outcomes in the pediatric headache population. A conceptual model was developed based on the findings from the health concepts. Findings from this review could be used for future qualitative interviews with pediatric patients with headaches to elicit and refine important QoL concepts.

Patients with severe Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) have an increasing risk of new psychiatric hospitalizations following each new episode of depression highlighting the recurrent nature of the disorder. Furthermore, patients are not fully recovered at the end of their treatment in outpatient mental health services, and residual symptoms of depression might explain why patients with MDD have a high risk of relapse. However, evidence of methods to promote recovery after discharge from outpatient mental health services is lacking. The proposed scoping review aims to systematically scope, map and identify the evidence and knowledge gaps on interventions that aims to promote recovery from MDD for patients transitioning from outpatient mental health services to primary care. The proposed scoping review will follow the latest methodological guidance by the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) in tandem with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analysis-extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) checklist. The review is ongoing. Four electronic databases (Medline via PubMed, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Sociological Abstracts) were systematically searched from 20 January 2022 till 29 March 2022 using keywords and text words. The review team consists of three independent screeners. Two screeners have completed the initial title and abstract screening for all studies retrieved by the search strategy. Currently, we are in the full text screening phase. Reference lists of included studies will be screened, and data will be independently extracted by the review team. Results will be analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively. The chosen methodology is based on the use of publicly available information and does not require ethical approval. Results will be published in an international peer reviewed scientific journal, at national and international conferences and shared with relevant authorities. A pre-print has been registered at the medRxiv preprint server for health sciences (doi.org/10.1101/2022.10.06.22280499).

Although family photos are often used in the psychosocial care for people with dementia, little is known about the use and effectiveness of generic photos. This systematic literature review explored psychosocial interventions using generic photos for people with dementia, and the effects they have on their social interaction and/or mood and/or quality of life. In addition, it was investigated whether these interventions made use of technology in its implementation. A systematic search on the following databases was performed: PubMed, Embase, APA PsychInfo, Cinahl, Web of Science, Scopus and Cochrane Central. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were based on the PICO model (Population, Intervention, Comparison, Outcome), and quality assessment was undertaken using the Weight of Evidence Framework. Narrative synthesis was undertaken to summarize study characteristics- settings and designs, type of psychosocial interventions identified, type of photos and technology used, outcome measures, and results. A total of 2,035 results were found, however after title, abstract and full-text screening, a total of 8 studies were included. The most common psychosocial intervention using generic photos was found to be reminiscence therapy, followed by art-viewing activities. In studies that used technology, it was reported that viewing digitalized photos were either similar or better to conventional printed photos. Despite photos being generic, it was found that generic photos could still hold personal significance to the person with dementia. Some positive and significant effects were found for the outcomes social interaction, mood and quality of life, though no study evaluated all three outcomes. Two studies were rated as having high overall quality, 4 were rated as fair, and 2 studies had a low quality assessment rating. Studies found using generic photos were limited, showing varying outcomes and methodological quality. Firm conclusions on the effectiveness of interventions using generic photos are not possible. However, the use of generic photos in psychosocial interventions is a promising area for future research. Researchers should consider studies with better methodological quality and larger samples; and qualitative studies where the intention is to get better insight into successful implementation and impact mechanisms of such psychosocial interventions. n/a.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Women are more likely to experience intimate partner violence (IPV) than men; 19.2%-69.0% of women have experienced IPV, and the percentage is increasing. Survivors of IPV suffer from physical, psychological, social and reproductive health problems and numerous adverse health consequences such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. These are considered IPV comorbidities, especially among women. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study reviews and reinforces existing scientific knowledge regarding the application of trauma-informed care (TIC), including intervention content or type, frequency, duration of session and length. This study focused on the effects of TIC. Furthermore, it examines short-term (3 months) and medium-term (6 months) outcome effects, which are more significant for clinical practice. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Development of a standardized protocol to address specific needs for TIC in IPV care settings. Among multidisciplinary teams, nurses are the ideal professionals to support women experiencing IPV. They can understand their traumatic experiences better, improve their therapeutic relationships and engage patients in collaborative care. INTRODUCTION: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression and anxiety are considered intimate partner violence (IPV) comorbidities, especially among women. Trauma-informed care (TIC) is the most common element of IPV care. This study analysed the short-term (3 months) and medium-term (6 months) outcomes of TIC on PTSD, depression and anxiety in women experiencing IPV. The Preferred Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines were followed, and databases were searched from their inception to September 2022. Thirteen randomized controlled trials included 850 women randomly assigned to the TIC and usual care groups. Overall, TIC showed a superior psychological health-improving effect. Depression and anxiety significantly improved after treatment and at three and 6 months. No difference was observed in PTSD between the two groups at 3 and 6 months. The growing evidence demonstrates that the lack of IPV intervention effects reported by reviews may be due to the attributes of PTSD, heterogeneity of TIC intervention design and components of TIC. Therefore, its clinical efficacy remains inconclusive. We analysed studies by stratifying intervention frequencies of once or twice a week. Regardless of the intervention frequency, length and design, PTSD decreased immediately after the TIC intervention. However, a significant difference in depression was observed after a TIC intervention of above 9 weeks.

Media's Stranglehold on Storm and Stress - The Sorrows of Generation Z about Sex and Gender 

The purpose of the study is to assess the effects of the Epley maneuver on patients with BPPV. International libraries such as MEDLINE, Cochrane, Web of Science, and PubMed, among others, were used to evaluate evidence on the effectiveness of Epley's procedure on BPPV published between January 2000 and December 2022. For accessing the articles, several search phrases, such as "Epley Maneuver", "BPPV", "Vertigo", "Vestibular Rehabilitation", and "Physical Therapy" were utilized. A total of 69 papers were retrieved and assessed for inclusion and exclusion criteria based on the article title, abstract, and inclusion and exclusion criteria. Following that, the quality of the chosen studies was assessed using the PEDro scale. Only seven studies fulfilled the eligibility criterion and were evaluated out of a potential 69 records found. A total of 413 BPPV-screened individuals were examined. The findings of the studies chosen for review revealed that Epley's technique had a considerable, significantly positive influence on the alleviation of symptoms for BPPV patients, including nystagmus, dizziness, and quality of life. The patients described feeling better after performing the Epley maneuver for a prolonged time. The research ended with data confirming the benefit of the Epley maneuver in relieving symptoms in BPPV patients.

We review social-psychological evidence for a theoretically integrative and dynamic model of intergroup conflict escalation within democratic societies. Viewing individuals as social regulators who protect their social embeddedness (e.g., in their group or in society), the  The 2021 Capitol Hill attack exemplifies a major "trigger event" for different groups to protect their values within a democratic society. Which specific perceptions generate such a triggering event, which value-protective responses does it trigger, and do such responses escalate intergroup conflict? We offer the 

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a serious threat to the physical health and quality of life of the elderly, as well as a heavy burden on families and society. The current computer-based rehabilitation training ignores the role of emotions in cognitive impairment rehabilitation, making it difficult to improve patient engagement and efficiency. To address this, a psychodynamics-based cognitive rehabilitation training method with personalized emotional arousal elements was proposed using virtual reality technology. Our proposed method contains four training tasks, which cover (audiovisual memory, attention & processing, working memory, abstract & Logic, spatial pathfinding) and six positive emotional arousal elements (sensory feedback, achievement system, multiplayer interaction, score comparison, relaxation scenarios, and peaceful videos) to motivate participants to persist during cognitive training continuously and maintain a positive mental attitude toward training. The six emotional arousal elements were divided into two personalized combinations-full combination and half combination-based on the results of the pre-assessment and were dynamically distributed throughout both the training tasks and post-training. Fifteen participants with MCI were recruited to complete the proposed experiment and validate the effectiveness of the system. They were first asked to complete two assessments (e.g., the big five scale and the positive and negative affect scale) to investigate their personalities. Based on the results of the assessments, they were provided with a full or half combination of arousal elements in the training tasks and post-training. Finally, the acceptability of the system and task experience were assessed using questionnaires. Notably, there was a significant increase in training scores for participants who completed a six-week training period (66.7%, 33.4%, and 25.0% for attention and processing, working memory, and abstraction and logic, respectively). The results show that positive emotional arousal had a positive effect on the MCI participants. The training tasks and arousal elements can improve cognitive function and enhance the confidence and engagement of participants. There were no significant differences in cognitive domain training scores between the two groups. This personalized cognitive training system has the potential to serve as a convenient solution for complementary treatment of MCI.

Extended reality (XR) seems promising for rehabilitation for people with acquired brain injury in terms of reducing professional supervision, faster recovery, shorter hospital stays, and reduced expenses. Since there is no overview this scoping review describes how XR can be utilized in rehabilitation, particularly for people with acquired brain injury (ABI). The Arksey and O'Malley framework and PRISMA-ScR reporting guideline were followed. Studies between 2010 and May 2022 screened from healthcare as well as technical databases were imported in RAYYAN. Three researchers selected relevant articles in three rounds based on title, abstract and full text. 75 articles were included in this scoping review. Most studies used VR as technology with therapy objectives in three main categories: cognitive, physical and diagnostic. The outcomes of the studies show potential and promising results of the use of XR, and enthusiasm with as well patients as professionals. A selection of four domains of the NASSS framework: condition, technology, value proposition and adopters were reported. Important lessons learned by the included studies are development of XR software, improvement of the hardware, improving feeling of safety and giving support to the patient, and support healthcare professionals for acceptance of XR. the use of XR for people with ABI has potential and is promising but not common practice yet. Future research should focus on implementation factors with a diverse and inclusive patient group using service modelling.

Decision analysis tools (DAT) are shared decision making instruments that include patient input on treatment goals and values that have been shown to decrease decisional regret in women's health care. We describe a novel, computerized DAT for patients with urinary incontinence (UI), and our primary aim was to assess the concordance between treatment fit as determined by the DAT and treatment selected after physician counseling in patients with urgency urinary incontinence and urgency predominant mixed urinary incontinence. We partnered with a health care startup to develop a computerized DAT incorporating evidence about UI and patient input about treatment goals and personal values. This is a retrospective cohort study examining the concordance of DAT-predicted treatments identified before consultation with the physician and those chosen after counseling. Electronic medical records were reviewed to abstract demographic, clinical data, and treatments chosen at the initial physician consultation. Because it was possible to pursue concurrent treatment options (ie, pelvic floor physical therapy and medications), the first 2 modalities identified in the treatment plan at consultation were abstracted. Descriptive statistics were conducted using SPSS®, we did not adjust for multiple comparisons. Four hundred eighty-nine patients met the inclusion criteria for our study, and 65% of the cohort chose treatment options after counseling that were concordant with their DAT best treatment fit. Patients choosing treatment for urgency urinary incontinence and urgency predominant mixed urinary incontinence using a novel, computer-based DAT to prepare for shared decision making with their physicians often choose to proceed with their top DAT-determined treatment fit after counseling.

Overload from bruxism may affect survival of dental implants. To evaluate implant failure and marginal bone loss (MBL) in patients presenting with probable bruxism compared to non-bruxers. The study was registered in PROSPERO (CRD42021238397). An electronic search September 2022 in PubMed/Medline, Web of Science and Science Direct was combined with a hand search. Two independent reviewers carried out abstract screening, full-text assessment, quality assessment (National Institutes of Health tool) and data extraction. Only studies that provided information on self-report and clinical examination needed for the diagnosis of at least 'probable' bruxism were included. A pairwise random-effect meta-analysis was carried out. In total 1338 studies were identified, and after screening and full-text assessment 27 studies that presented data on 2105 implants in probable bruxers and 10 264 implants in non-bruxers were included, with 138 and 352 implant failures in respective groups. the meta-analysis showed that implants placed in probable bruxers had a higher risk of failure than in non-bruxers (OR 2.189; 95% CI 1.337, 3.583, p = .002). A meta-regression showed that follow-up time did not affect this OR. Eighteen studies provided general data on MBL but did not report results separated between bruxers and non-bruxers. Therefore, an analysis of MBL was not possible. The results of the present systematic review show that implants placed in probable bruxers present a significantly higher risk of failure than implants placed in non-bruxers. This should be considered in treatment planning and management of implant patients.

The purpose of this research study was to obtain greater insight into the associations of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and trauma-exposed experiences with the development of offending behavior in adolescents. Using the PubMed and Scopus databases, we performed a systematic review of recent cross-sectional studies between 2016 and 2022, investigating the associations of PTSD and trauma with the social and mental behavior of adolescents. Fifty-three articles were initially identified. Due to duplication, eight articles were excluded, leaving 45 remaining articles. In addition, 34 articles were excluded due to year of publication, review, abstract, or irrelevant title. Seven articles were included in this systematic review after excluding the remaining due to different study types or samples. Included studies primarily examined the associations of PTSD symptomatology and expression of externalizing symptoms with risky behavior and the commission of a crime. The strongest outcomes were increased levels of violent behavior, violent delinquency, and total risk in correlation with PTSD symptoms, emotional numbing, use of drugs, and in some cases maltreatment. The results of the systematic review suggest that PTSD symptoms and risky behavior, which can be also fueled by maltreatment activities in the family circle, are associated with criminal behavior. Future research is needed to confirm these findings.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Anxiety is common in women, nurses and nurse educators and can negatively impact overall mental well-being and work-life satisfaction. Anxiety increased during the COVID-19 pandemic. Hope is a personal resource that can be employed to help cope with anxiety. Professional identity, 'our why', is important to recognize and revisit as a way to add value to daily work in anxious times. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Compassion fatigue has contributed to burnout and turnover of nurses and nursing faculty. Knowing our 'why' helps understand the motivation in our work. Using hope as a personal resource, and sharing my lived experience, could be useful to other nursing faculty struggling with anxiety. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING?: There is a need for mental health resources within healthcare and education systems to support nurses and nurse educators not only during the COVID-19 pandemic but through future healthcare crises. Support programmes and interventions need to be developed to sustain and retain both nurses and nursing faculty. BACKGROUND: Providing patient care and nurse education in today's healthcare environment is high-stress, often resulting in high-anxiety among both nurses and nurse educators. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on nurse faculty is largely unexplored. The aim was to share the experience of living and work working with anxiety in the nurse faculty role during the COVID-19 pandemic. This is a lived experience narrative of one nurse faculty member. Through daily purposeful self-motivation and reflection, yoga, and brief outdoor respites, the author was able to strengthen professional identity, to see value in her work and to activate the personal resource of hope (Nursing Management, 52, 2021, 56; Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 93, 2020, 187). 'Nursing faculty are essential to the profession' and likely experienced 'emotional exhaustion' during the pandemic (Nursing Education Perspectives, 42, 2021, 8) in their efforts to buoy students. It needs to be acknowledged that nursing faculty can experience anxiety, secondary trauma (International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 17, 2020, 8358) and compassion fatigue, through listening to students' experiences and offering reinforcement during chaotic times. Little is known about what nursing faculty experienced as they attempted to support students (Nursing Education Perspectives, 42, 2021, 285). It is hoped that by sharing this lived experience, nurses and nurse faculty will understand how employing hope as a personal resource and re-engaging with their professional identity will help them cope with the significant stresses that future healthcare pandemics or disasters may bring.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common hormone disorder affecting about one in seven reproductive-aged women worldwide and approximately 6 million women in the United States (U.S.). PCOS can be a significant burden to those affected and is associated with an increased prevalence of mental health (MH) disorders such as depression, anxiety, eating disorders, and postpartum depression. We undertook this study to determine the excess economic burden associated with MH disorders in women with PCOS in order to allow for a more accurate prioritization of the disorder as a public health priority. Following PRISMA reporting guidelines for systematic review, we searched PubMed, Web of Science, EBSCO, Medline, Scopus, and PsycINFO through July 16, 2021, for studies on MH disorders in PCOS. Excluded were studies not in humans, without controls, without original data, or not peer reviewed. As anxiety, depression, eating disorders, and postpartum depression were by far the most common MH disorders assessed by the studies, we performed our meta-analysis on these disorders. Meta-analyses were performed using the DerSimonian-Laird random effects model to compute pooled estimates of prevalence ratios (PRs) for the associations between PCOS and these MH disorders and then calculated the excess direct costs related to these disorders in U.S. dollars (USD) for women suffering from PCOS in the U.S. alone. The quality of selected studies was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. We screened 78 articles by title/abstract, assessed 43 articles in full text, and included 25 articles. Pooled PRs were 1.42 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.32-1.52) for anxiety, 1.65 (95% CI: 1.44-1.89) for depression, 1.48 (95% CI: PR: 1.06-2.05) for eating disorders, and 1.20 (95% CI: 0.96-1.50) for postpartum depression, for PCOS relative to controls. In the U.S., the additional direct healthcare costs associated with anxiety, depression, and eating disorders in PCOS were estimated to be $1.939 billion/yr, $1.678 billion/yr, and $0.644 billion/yr in 2021 USD, respectively. Postpartum depression was excluded from the cost analyses due to the non-significant meta-analysis result. Taken together, the additional direct healthcare costs associated with anxiety, depression, and eating disorders in PCOS were estimated to be $4.261 billion/yr in 2021 USD. Overall, the direct healthcare annual costs for the most common MH disorders in PCOS, namely anxiety, depression, and eating disorders, exceeds $4 billion in 2021 USD for the U.S. population alone. Taken together with our prior work, these data suggest that the healthcare-related economic burden of PCOS exceeds $15 billion yearly, considering the costs of PCOS diagnosis, and costs related to PCOS-associated MH, reproductive, vascular, and metabolic disorders. As PCOS has much the same prevalence across the world, the excess economic burden attributable to PCOS globally is enormous, mandating that the scientific and policy community increase its focus on this important disorder. The study was supported, in part, by PCOS Challenge: The National Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Association and by the Foundation for Research and Education Excellence.

This study was registered with the German Clinical Trials Register - Deutschen Register Klinischer Studien (DRKS) on 23 December 2018. The Trial Registration Number (TRN) is DRKS00016506.

To summarize the available evidence from systematic reviews with meta-analysis on the effects of music-based interventions in adults diagnosed with cancer. An overview of systematic reviews was conducted. CINHAL, Embase, PEDro, PubMed, Scopus, the Cochrane Library and Web of Science were searched from inception until November 2022. Systematic reviews with meta-analysis in individuals with cancer (any type), any comparator, and outcomes of cancer-related pain, fatigue, and psychosocial symptoms were eligible. The methodological quality of systematic reviews and the amount of spin of information in the abstract were assessed. The Graphical Representation of Overlap for OVErviews tool (GROOVE) was used to explore the overlap of primary studies among systematic reviews. Thirteen systematic reviews, with over 9000 participants, containing 119 randomized trials and 34 meta-analyses of interest, were included. Music-based interventions involved passive music listening or patients' active engagement. Most systematic reviews lacked a comprehensive search strategy, did not assess the certainty in the evidence and discussed their findings without considering the risk of bias of primary studies. The degree of overlap was moderate (5.81%). Overall, combining music-based interventions and standard care seems to be more effective than standard care to reduce cancer-related pain, fatigue, and distress. Mixed findings were found for other psychosocial measures. Music-based interventions could be an interesting approach to modulate cancer-related pain, fatigue, and distress in adults with cancer. The variability among interventions, together with important methodological biases, detract from the clinical relevance of these findings.

Post-Event Processing (PEP) is prevalent and problematic in Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) but is typically not a direct target in evidence-based treatments such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for SAD. The primary aim of the current study was to examine the impact of several theoretically and empirically derived interventions for PEP in SAD, including concrete thinking, abstract thinking, and distraction in comparison to a control (i.e., do nothing) condition. Based on prior research, we hypothesized that the concrete and distract conditions would be associated with positive benefits, including reductions in PEP and improvements in self-perception, whereas the abstract and control conditions would not. The second aim of the study was to identify baseline variables that predict the trajectory of change in PEP over time. Participants (N=92) with a principal diagnosis of SAD completed a social stress task and were randomly assigned to one of four conditions. Participants completed measures at baseline, post-intervention/control, and at 1-week, and 1-month follow-up. Contrary to hypotheses, all three active conditions were similarly effective at reducing PEP and improving self-perceptions relative to the control condition. In the absence of an intervention, engagement in PEP remained high up to a month following the social stress task. Higher levels of baseline state anxiety, intolerance of uncertainty, and use of safety behaviours predicted greater PEP, even in the presence of an intervention. These results highlight the benefits of relatively brief interventions that disrupt the course of PEP for people with SAD. Such interventions can be easily incorporated into CBT protocols for SAD to enhance their effects.

Cicatricial alopecia may lead to an enormous emotional burden, social distress, and psychological impairment affecting the quality of life. The objective of this review is to systematically describe the health-related quality of life in adults with primary cicatricial alopecia and its subtypes. Studies that (i) reported quality of life in patients with primary cicatricial alopecia or its subtypes; (ii) were original research and not a conference abstract or review (iii) with patients >18 years of age were included in the review. The studies not mentioning quality of life specifically for the cicatricial alopecia cohort were excluded. We searched for literature via OVID in Medline and Embase, in Web of Science, CINAHL, EBSCO (APA PsycArticles, APA PsycInfo, and PSYNDEX Literature), in the Cochrane Library and for grey literature from its inception date till 12 November 2022. The risk of bias was assessed by using the AXIS tool for cross-sectional studies by two independent authors. Thirteen observational cross-sectional and one single-arm study, including 572 patients and eight different instruments, fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Results are descriptively synthesized, and associated factors of quality of life are presented. The data from studies that used the Dermatology Life Quality Index tool (DLQI) showed that more than 70% of the patients have an impaired life quality. While trichodynia and anxiety have a negative effect on the quality of life, disease duration, education, employment, and marital status have no effect. The findings were inconsistent for other factors. Most of these studies failed to justify the sample size. Furthermore, the risk of bias assessment could not surely rule out a non-response bias. Our results suggest that cicatricial alopecia treatments must be integrated with psychosocial intervention and indicate the need for further research with homogenous and more comprehensive tools to identify and address this patient population's unmet mental health needs.

We conducted a systematic review of qualitative evidence to improve understanding of the processes and outcomes of redress and reconciliation following a life-changing event from the perspectives of individuals experiencing the event and their families. We searched six bibliographic databases for primary qualitative evidence exploring the views of individuals who have experienced a life-changing event, and/or their family or carers, of redress or reconciliation processes. This was supplemented with targeted database searches, forward and backward citation chasing and searches of Google Scholar and relevant websites. Title and abstract and full-text screening were undertaken independently by two reviewers. Data extraction and quality appraisal were conducted by one reviewer and checked by a second. We used a best-fit framework synthesis approach, drawing upon procedural and restorative justice concepts. Fifty-three studies (61 papers) were eligible for inclusion. Forty-one studies (47 papers) were included in the synthesis, from which we identified four themes. Three themes 'Transparency', 'Person-centered' and 'Trustworthy' represent the procedural elements required to support a fair and objective process. The fourth, 'Restorative justice' encapsulates how a fair process feels to those who have experienced a life-changing event. This theme highlights the importance of an empathic relationship between the different parties involved in the redress-reconciliation process and the significance of being able to engage in meaningful action. Our findings highlight the procedural aspects and context of redress-reconciliation processes required to ensure that the process and outcomes are experienced as fair. These criteria may be applied to the processes used to investigate both recent and historical patient safety events. One member of the public affiliated with the Exeter Policy Research Programme Evidence Review Facility helped develop the review protocol. Two people with experience of medically life-changing events provided insight which corroborated our findings and identified important limitations of the evidence included in this review.

This paper argues that a greater understanding of the role of emotions in experiencing leadership, the impact of role models and cultures of the workplace and profession, may enable further development for effective leadership development at undergraduate level and beyond. Leadership has gained prominence as a necessary skill in nursing literature and policy, linking its importance to patient safety, working cultures, resilience and emotional labour globally. Viewed as essential in many undergraduate nursing programmes and a requirement by professional regulators, there is a globally agreed acceptance of its importance. Despite this, the focus on evaluating and researching the effectiveness of leadership learning and through experiences of students in contexts of learning remain limited. This paper presents a discussion on the importance of experiences of leadership, exploring the emotional impact and how enabling reflexivity and critical analysis can be integrated in education. An approach is proposed for nursing education where the emotional impact of experiencing leadership is given significance. Experiences of leadership in practice and educational learning in higher education should allow students to reflect and conceptualise experience, aligning educational contexts of learning. Acknowledgement of emotional experience and pragmatism provides opportunity to strengthen evidence and knowledge and establish leadership as a concept of value in the profession from an early stage. A critical theoretical discussion paper METHODS: Based on a narrative inquiry study, drawing on theory and philosophies of emotions in education and leadership from 1907 to 2023 RESULTS: Acknowledgement of emotional experience and pragmatism provides opportunity to strengthen evidence and establish leadership as a concept of value in the profession from an early stage. Placing value on the experience of leadership by reflexivity and pragmatic, experiential approaches to learning can align educational contexts of learning and focus on effective leadership learning for the nursing profession. Pragmatic approaches and reflexivity rationalise emotional experiences of leadership and encourage critical thinking and learning.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported online in 

The processing-mode theory of rumination proposes that an abstract mode of rumination results in more maladaptive consequences than a concrete ruminative mode. It is supported by evidence mostly from the area of depression and little is known of the relative consequences of abstract versus concrete rumination for anger. We investigated the differential effects of abstract versus concrete rumination about anger on individuals' current affect. We hypothesized that abstract rumination would increase current anger and negative affect, and decrease positive affect, to a greater extent than concrete rumination. In a within-subject design, 120 participants were instructed to focus on a past social event that resulted in intense anger and then to ruminate about the event in both an abstract and a concrete mode, in a randomly assigned order. Current anger, negative and positive affect were assessed before and after each rumination phase. Anger and negative affect increased and positive affect decreased from pre- to post-rumination. Contrary to expectations, these patterns were observed irrespective of the ruminative mode induced. This initial study does not support the hypothesis that abstract and concrete rumination about anger have different consequences for current affect. Replications and more extensive designs are needed.

Few longitudinal studies have evaluated the impact of chronic kidney disease (CKD) duration on health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The study's aim was to determine how HRQOL changes over time in childhood CKD. Study participants were children in the chronic kidney disease in children (CKiD) cohort who completed the pediatric quality of life inventory (PedsQL) on three or more occasions over the course of two or more years. Generalized gamma (GG) mixed-effects models were applied to assess the effect of CKD duration on HRQOL while controlling for selected covariates. A total of 692 children (median age = 11.2) with a median of 8.3 years duration of CKD were evaluated. All subjects had a GFR greater than 15 ml/min/1.73 m Longer duration of the disease is associated with improved HRQOL on child self-report scales; however, parent-proxy results were less likely to demonstrate any significant change over time. This divergence could be due to greater optimism and accommodation of CKD in children. Clinicians can use these data to better understand the needs of pediatric CKD patients. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

During the last decades, event-related potential research on the processing of intrinsic and acquired valence has made great progress, but the two dimensions rarely varied simultaneously. Only that way, however, can we investigate whether the acquisition of extrinsic valence varies with intrinsic valence and whether intrinsic and acquired valence share the same brain mechanisms. Forty-five participants performed associative learning of gains and losses, using pictures varying on intrinsic valence (positive, negative) and outcome (90 % gain, 50 %/50 %, 90 % loss). 64-channel EEG was recorded. During acquisition, one picture from each valence/outcome combination was repeatedly presented, followed by abstract outcome information (+10 ct, -10 ct) at the predefined probability. In the test phase, participants pressed buttons to earn the real gains and avoid the real losses associated with the pictures. Here, effects of outcome and/or its congruence with intrinsic valence were observed for RT, error rate, frontal theta power, posterior P2, P300, and LPP. Moreover, outcome systematically affected post-test valence and arousal ratings. During acquisition, a contingency effect (90 % > 50 %) on amplitude of a frontal negative slow wave accompanied the progress of learning, independently of outcome, valence, and congruence. The relative absence of outcome effects during acquisition suggests "cold" semantic rather than genuinely affective processing of gains and losses. However, with real gains and losses in the test phase, "hot" affective processing took place, and outcome and its congruence with intrinsic valence influenced behavior and neural processing. Finally, the data suggest both shared and distinct brain mechanisms of intrinsic and acquired valence.

Refugees and asylum seekers have a high prevalence of psychiatric disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, and depression. The postmigration context inheres different risk and protective factors for mental health of refugees and asylum seekers in host countries. We conducted a systematic review to update knowledge on the association between characteristics of the postmigration living situation (PMLS) and mental health outcomes in Europe since 2015. We searched in five databases according to the PRISMA statement. From a total of 5,579 relevant studies published in 2015-22, 3,839 were included for title and abstract screening, and 70 full texts screened for eligibility. Out of these, 19 studies on refugees and asylum seekers conducted in European countries after 2014 were included in this systematic review. The quality of studies was assessed by using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool (MMAT) - version 2018. We performed a narrative synthesis using the four layers of the social determinants of health framework. A wide range of risk and protective factors for mental health in the PMLS were identified as exposure measures, which included individual factors (e.g., language skills), social and community networks (e.g., family concerns, loneliness and social support, discrimination), living and working conditions (e.g., legal status, duration of residence, unemployment and financial hardship, housing) as well as general socio-economic, cultural and environmental factors (e.g., social status, acculturation). We found postmigration stressors are positively associated with symptoms of depression, anxiety, and PTSD, albeit not consistently so. Especially, the general socio-economic, cultural and environmental factors showed weak associations with mental health. Heterogenous study characteristics likely explain the inconsistent associations between characteristics of the PMLS and mental health outcomes. However, broken down in its component layers, most risk and protective factors of the PMLS were significantly associated with symptoms of mental disorders showing the same direction of association across the included studies, while the association between some stressors or resources of the PMLS and mental health turns out to be less homogeneous than expected. Characteristics of the PMLS contribute to the high prevalence of mental diseases of refugees and asylum seekers. Disadvantages in general socio-economic conditions, living and working conditions, in access to social and community networks need to be redressed, in addition to better access to health care.

Adolescent depression is becoming one of the major public health concerns, because of its increased prevalence and risk of significant functional impairment and suicidality. Clinical depression commonly emerges in adolescence; therefore, the prevention and intervention of depression at this stage is crucial. Recent evidence supports the importance of the gut microbiota (GM) in the modulation of multiple functions associated with depression through the gut-brain axis (GBA). However, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, in the current study, we aimed to screen the microbiota out from healthy and depressive adolescents, delineate the association of the targeted microbiota and the adolescent depression, address the salutary effects of the targeted microbiota on anti-depressive behaviors in mice involving the metabolism of the tryptophan (Trp)-derived neurotransmitters along the GBA. Here, we found the gut microbiota from healthy adolescent volunteers, first diagnosis patients of adolescent depression, and sertraline interveners after first diagnosis displayed significant difference, the relative abundance of Faecalibacterium, Roseburia, Collinsella, Blautia, Phascolarctobacterium, Lachnospiraceae-unclassified decreased in adolescent depressive patients, while restored after sertraline treatment. Of note, the Roseburia abundance exhibited a high efficiency in predicting adolescent depression. Intriguingly, transplantation of the fecal microbiota from healthy adolescent volunteers to the chronic restraint stress (CRS)-induced adolescent depressed mice significantly ameliorated mouse depressive behaviors, in which the Roseburia exerted critical roles, since its effective colonization in the mouse colon resulted in remarkably increased 5-HT level and reciprocally decreased kynurenine (Kyn) toxic metabolites quinolinic acid (Quin) and 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK) levels in both the mouse brain and colon. The specific roles of the Roseburia were further validated by the target bacteria transplantation mouse model, Roseburia intestinalis (Ri.) was gavaged to mice and importantly, it dramatically ameliorated CRS-induced mouse depressive behaviors, increased 5-HT levels in the brain and colon via promoting tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) or -1 (TPH1) expression. Reciprocally, Ri. markedly restrained the limit-step enzyme responsible for kynurenine (indoleamine2,3-dioxygenase 1, IDO1) and quinolinic acid (3-hydroxyanthranilic acid 3,4-dioxygenase, 3HAO) generation, thereby decreased Kyn and Quin levels. Additionally, Ri. administration exerted a pivotal role in the protection of CRS-induced synaptic loss, microglial activation, and astrocyte maintenance. This study is the first to delineate the beneficial effects of Ri. on adolescent depression by balancing Trp-derived neurotransmitter metabolism and improving synaptogenesis and glial maintenance, which may yield novel insights into the microbial markers and therapeutic strategies of GBA in adolescent depression. Video Abstract.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is evidence that social isolation and loneliness is more prevalent in people living with mental illness than in the general population. People living with mental illness frequently experience stigma, discrimination, rejection, repeated psychiatric admissions, low self-esteem, low self-efficacy, and increased symptoms of paranoia, depression, and anxiety. There is evidence of common interventions that can be used to improve loneliness and social isolation such as psychosocial skills training and cognitive group therapy. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper offers a comprehensive assessment of the evidence between mental illness, loneliness, and recovery. The results suggest that people living with mental illness experience elevated levels of social isolation and loneliness leading to poor recovery and quality of life. Social deprivation, social integration and romantic loneliness are related to loneliness, poor recovery, and reduced quality of life. A sense of belonging, ability to trust and hope are important aspects of improved loneliness, quality of life and recovery. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The existing culture in mental health nursing practice needs to be examined to address loneliness in people living with mental illness and its impact on recovery. Existing tools to research loneliness do not consider dimensions in loneliness experience as reflected in the literature. Practice needs to demonstrate an integrated approach to recovery, optimal service delivery and augmentation of evidence-based clinical practice to improve individual's loneliness, social circumstances, and relationships. Practice needs to demonstrate nursing knowledge in caring for people living with mental illness experiencing loneliness. Further longitudinal research is required to clearly understand the relationship between loneliness, mental illness, and recovery. INTRODUCTION: To our knowledge, there are no previous reviews on the impact of loneliness experienced by people aged 18-65, who are living with mental illness and their recovery experience. To explore the experience and impact of loneliness in people living with mental illness during recovery. An integrative review. A total of 17 papers met the inclusion criteria. The search was conducted using four electronic databases: MEDLINE, CINAHL, Scopus and PsycINFO. Across these 17 papers, participants were most commonly, diagnosed with schizophrenia or psychotic disorders and recruited from community mental health services. The review revealed loneliness to be substantial in people living with mental illness and that loneliness affected their recovery, and their quality of life. The review identified many factors that contribute to loneliness including unemployment, financial strain, social deprivation, group housing, internalized stigma and mental illness symptoms. Individual factors such as social/community integration and social network size as well as an inability to trust, a sense of not belonging, hopelessness and lack of romance were also evident. Interventions targeting social functioning skills and social connectedness were found to improve social isolation and loneliness. It is vital for mental health nursing practice to employ an approach integrating physical health as well as social recovery needs, optimal service delivery and augmentation of evidence-based clinical practice to improve loneliness, recovery, and quality of life.

Steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome (SSNS) is associated with a relapsing-remitting course that can be stressful for parents. As little is known of parental distress at the first onset of SSNS, this study aims to describe parental distress and everyday problems in mothers and fathers of a child with newly diagnosed SSNS participating in a randomized controlled trial of levamisole added to corticosteroids. To assess distress, the Distress Thermometer for Parents (DT-P) was used, which includes questions on distress (thermometer score 0-10, ≥ 4 "clinical distress") and presence of everyday problems in six domains: practical, social, emotional, physical, cognitive, and parenting. The DT-P was completed 4 weeks after the onset of SSNS. Total sum and individual items of everyday problems were compared with reference data from mothers and fathers of the Dutch general population. There was no difference in clinically elevated parental distress between SSNS mothers (n = 37) and fathers (n = 25) and reference parents. Compared to reference fathers, fathers of a child with SSNS scored significantly higher on emotional problems (P = 0.030), while mothers experienced more parenting problems (P = 0.002). Regression analyses showed that lower parental age and having a girl with SSNS were significantly associated with more practical problems and higher distress thermometer scores, respectively. Four weeks after onset, SSNS mothers and fathers experience equal distress as reference parents. However, both parents endorsed significantly more everyday problems. Therefore, monitoring parental distress, even in the first weeks of the disease, could contribute to timely interventions and prevent worsening of problems. Dutch Trial Register ( https://onderzoekmetmensen.nl/en/trial/27331 ). A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Emotional voice conveys important social cues that demand listeners' attention and timely processing. This event-related potential study investigated the feasibility of a multifeature oddball paradigm to examine adult listeners' neural responses to detecting emotional prosody changes in nonrepeating naturally spoken words. Thirty-three adult listeners completed the experiment by passively listening to the words in neutral and three alternating emotions while watching a silent movie. Previous research documented preattentive change-detection electrophysiological responses (e.g., mismatch negativity [MMN], P3a) to emotions carried by fixed syllables or words. Given that the MMN and P3a have also been shown to reflect extraction of abstract regularities over repetitive acoustic patterns, this study employed a multifeature oddball paradigm to compare listeners' MMN and P3a to emotional prosody change from neutral to angry, happy, and sad emotions delivered with hundreds of nonrepeating words in a single recording session. Both MMN and P3a were successfully elicited by the emotional prosodic change over the varying linguistic context. Angry prosody elicited the strongest MMN compared with happy and sad prosodies. Happy prosody elicited the strongest P3a in the centro-frontal electrodes, and angry prosody elicited the smallest P3a. The results demonstrated that listeners were able to extract the acoustic patterns for each emotional prosody category over constantly changing spoken words. The findings confirm the feasibility of the multifeature oddball paradigm in investigating emotional speech processing beyond simple acoustic change detection, which may potentially be applied to pediatric and clinical populations.

Older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and depression have a higher dementia conversion rate, which requires timely intervention. A non-randomized controlled trial was conducted to explore the effect of a nurse-led positive psychological intervention (PPI) in relieving depression and promoting cognition in this population. A total of 70 older adults were enrolled, with 35 each in the intervention and control groups. The control group received one-to-one health education, and the intervention group received a 40- to 60-minute PPI for eight successive weeks. During the intervention, most participants reached the standard of active participation, and 2.86% continued to complete homework every day during follow-up. The Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) score in the intervention group was significantly lower than that in the control group at the end of intervention (t = -3.64, p < 0.05) and at 3-month follow-up (t = -4.48, p < 0.05). Interaction effects of time and group on PHQ-9 scores (F = 8.11, p < 0.001), with significant differences between the groups in scores (F = 9.11, p < 0.05) and times (F = 23.58, p < 0.05) was observed. In the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) scale, the intervention group had significantly higher scores than controls at the end of intervention (t = 7.28, p < 0.05) and 3-month follow-up (t = 8.01, p < 0.05). Cognition in the two groups was significantly affected by intergroup effects (F = 42.80, p < 0.001), interaction effects (F = 30.38, p < 0.001), and time effects (F = 33.67, p < 0.05). Although the effects tended to decrease in follow-up, the nurse-led PPI was feasible and valid in relieving depression and promoting cognition among older participants with MCI and depression. The present findings warrant further exploration. A nurse-led positive psychological intervention was applicable among elderly MCI adults with depression and effective in relieving depression and promoting cognition.

Figurative language is one of the most prevalent expressions of verbal creativity, and use of novel metaphors is the most significant source of verbal innovation. As environmental and personality trait factors can impact creativity, the current study aimed to examine whether exposure to an environment rich in visual stimuli (artwork) and verbal stimuli (novel metaphors) contributes to verbal creativity, taking into account the personality trait of "openness to experience." Study participants (132) were divided into three groups: (1) a group exposed to a creative verbal environment (reading novel metaphors), (2) a group exposed to a visually creative environment (observing abstract and figurative artwork), and (3) a group not exposed to any creative environment. Participants completed personality questionnaire and a metaphor generation questionnaire that asked participants to describe 10 emotions using novel metaphors. Results showed the type of creative environment exposure had a graded effect on creativity (i.e., generation of novel metaphors): the non-exposed control group generated fewer novel than conventional metaphors, the group exposed to novel verbal metaphors produced a similar number of novel and conventional metaphors, and the group exposed to artwork produced more novel than conventional metaphors. This may imply that environments containing visually creative stimuli provide opportunities for silent contemplation which in turn evoke neuropsychological mechanisms related to creative processes. Furthermore, the finding that the trait of "openness to experience" and exposure to a visually creative environment contributed to greater generation of novel metaphors suggests that creativity may be dependent on both individual and environmental factors.

The design of the light environment plays a critical role in the interaction between people and visual objects in space. Adjusting the space's light environment to regulate emotional experience is more practical for the observers under lighting conditions. Although lighting plays a vital role in spatial design, the effects of colored lights on individuals' emotional experiences are still unclear. This study combined physiological signal (galvanic skin response (GSR) and electrocardiography (ECG)) measurements and subjective assessments to detect the changes in the mood states of observers under four sets of lighting conditions (green, blue, red, and yellow). At the same time, two sets of abstract and realistic images were designed to discuss the relationship between light and visual objects and their influence on individuals' impressions. The results showed that different light colors significantly affected mood, with red light having the most substantial emotional arousal, then blue and green. In addition, GSR and ECG measurements were significantly correlated with impressions evaluation results of interest, comprehension, imagination, and feelings in subjective evaluation. Therefore, this study explores the feasibility of combining the measurement of GSR and ECG signals with subjective evaluations as an experimental method of light, mood, and impressions, which provided empirical evidence for regulating individuals' emotional experiences.

The highly prevalent late-life loneliness, together with its deleterious health impacts, calls for increasing attention to the need for effective interventions targeting on this growing public health problem. With the increasing evidence on interventions for combating loneliness, it is timely to identify their comparative effectiveness. This systematic review, meta-analysis and network meta-analysis was to identify and compare the effects of various non-pharmacological interventions on loneliness in community-dwelling older adults. Systematic search was conducted in nine electronic databases from inception to 30th March 2023 for studies investigating the effects of non-pharmacological interventions on loneliness among community-dwelling older adults. The interventions were categorized according to the nature and purpose of use. Pairwise meta-analysis and network meta-analyses were sequentially performed to identify the effects of each category of interventions and their comparative intervention effectiveness, respectively. Meta-regression was performed to examine any influence of study design and participants' characteristics on the intervention effectiveness. The study protocol was registered at PROSPERO (CRD42022307621). A total of 60 studies with 13,295 participants were included. The interventions were categorized as psychological interventions, social support interventions (by digital and non-digital means), behavioral activation, exercise intervention with and without social engagement, multi-component intervention and health promotion. Pairwise meta-analysis identified the positive effect of psychological interventions (Hedges' g = -2.33; 95%CI [-4.40, -0.25]; Z = -2.20, p = 0.003), non-digital social support interventions (Hedges' g = -0.63; 95%CI [-1.16, -0.10]; Z = 2.33, p = 0.02) and multi-component interventions (Hedges' g = -0.28 95%CI [-0.54, -0.03]; Z = -2.15, p = 0.03) on reducing loneliness. Subgroup analysis provided additional insights: i) social support and exercise interventions which integrated active strategies to optimize the social engagement demonstrated more promising intervention effects; ii) behavioral activation and multicomponent interventions worked better for older adults who were male or reported loneliness, respectively, and iii) counseling-based psychological interventions was more effective than mind-body practice. Network meta-analysis consistently pointed to the greatest therapeutic benefits of psychological interventions, and this was followed by exercise-based interventions, non-digital social support interventions and behavioral activation. Meta-regression further suggested that the therapeutic effects of the tested interventions were independent of the various factors relating to study design and participants' characteristics. This review highlights the more superior effects of psychological interventions in improving loneliness among older adults. Interventions which have an attribute to optimize social dynamic and connectivity may also be effective. Psychological intervention is the best to beat late-life loneliness, but increasing social dynamic and connectivity may add an impact.

In recent years, eye-tracking has been proposed as a promising tool to identify potential biomarkers for mental disorders, including major depression. We will conduct an updated systematic review and meta-analysis on eye-tracking research in adults with major depressive disorder or other clinically diagnosed depressive disorders. This protocol follows all reporting items in the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Protocol extension. We will conduct a systematic search of PubMed, PsycINFO, Google Scholar and EMBASE for sources published up until March 2023. Abstract and full-text review will be completed independently by two reviewers. Non-randomised studies using eye movement tasks in individuals with a depressive disorder versus controls will be included. Eye movement tasks of interest include, but are not limited to, saccade, smooth pursuit, fixation, free-viewing, attentional disengagement, visual search and attentional blink tasks. Results will be categorised by eye movement task. Risk of bias will be assessed using the National Institutes of Health Quality Assessment Tool for Observational Cohort and Cross-Sectional Studies and confidence in cumulative evidence will be assessed using Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation criteria. Ethics approval is not required due to the nature of the proposed analysis. Results will be disseminated through a journal article, conference presentations and/or dissertations.

The chronicity of congenital heart disease (CHD) comes with significant psychosocial consequences for both children and adolescents living with CHD and their primary caregivers. Children and adolescents living with CHD undergo multiple traumatizing invasive surgical and medical procedures, struggle with disabilities resulting from their CHD, face unfair scrutiny and marginalization, and are at risk for mental health issues. Primary caregivers of children and adolescents living with CHD deal with increased stress, fear, anxiety, depression, and financial burden. The overarching objectives of this scoping review are to (1) determine the current state of knowledge on negative psychosocial consequences experienced by children and adolescents living with CHD and their primary caregivers in high-income countries and (2) inform research aimed at developing interventions in high-income countries to decrease the negative psychosocial consequences experienced by children and adolescents living with CHD and their primary caregivers. Databases and grey literature searched will include MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CENTRAL, Scopus, ProQuest Theses and Dissertations, and Google advanced search. Citation mining of included studies and relevant review articles will be completed. Studies will be screened by title and abstract and then full text by two independent reviewers, using pre-defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Quality analysis will be conducted on all included studies by two reviewers using MMAT Version 2018. Studies will not be excluded due to quality assessment. Data from all eligible studies will be independently extracted by the two reviewers and verified by consensus. Data will be presented and synthesized in evidence tables to examine potential patterns. The results of this review will provide recognition of the psychosocial impact of CHD and its treatments on children and adolescents living with CHD and their primary caregivers. It will also highlight interventions that have been developed to decrease these psychosocial consequences. The results from this review will inform a future integrated knowledge translation study by the first author aimed at decreasing one or more of the negative psychosocial consequences experienced by children or adolescents living with CHD and their primary caregivers. Open Science Framework (OSF) Registration, https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/ZXYGW.

Prior research has suggested that mindfulness may enhance people's memory for art, although results have been mixed. Mindfulness may also be beneficial for some art-making tasks. Here we examine the effects of a short mindfulness (vs. control) induction administered online at different times in the procedure (i.e., pre-encoding vs. pre-retrieval) on viewing and making art. Adults (N = 303) viewed an art slideshow, completed an art-viewing testing task, and an art-making task (photography) after being exposed to a 5-min focused-attention mindfulness (vs. control) induction. Induction was presented either before or after the art slideshow (pre-encoding vs. pre-retrieval). Participants who were randomly assigned to the mindfulness (vs. control) condition created photographs that were more creative, complex, abstract, expressive, and higher in emotional valence. Furthermore, participants who experienced an induction (regardless of mindfulness or control) at the pre-encoding (vs. pre-retrieval) stage were better at differentiating between old and new artworks at a later memory test. Results show that mindfulness significantly enhances people's art, in this case their photographs. Findings also suggest that the mindfulness induction may not enhance participants' memory for art. Future studies will need to examine the effect of other types of mindfulness inductions (e.g., open-monitoring) on people's experience of viewing and making art.

In this exploratory study, we asked whether objective statistical image properties can predict subjective aesthetic ratings for a set of 48 abstract paintings created by the artist Robert Pepperell. Ruta and colleagues (2021) used the artworks previously to study the effect of curved/angular contour on liking and wanting decisions. We related a predefined set of statistical image properties to the eight different dimensions of aesthetic judgments from their study. Our results show that the statistical image properties can predict a large portion of the variance in the different aesthetic judgments by Ruta and colleagues. For example, adjusted R2 values for liking, attractiveness, visual comfort, and approachability range between 0.52 and 0.60 in multiple linear regression models with four predictors each. For wanting judgments in an (imagined) gallery context, the explained variance is even higher (adjusted R2 of 0.78). To explain these findings, we hypothesize that differences in cognitive processing of Pepperell's abstract paintings are minimized because this set of stimuli has no apparent content and is of uniform artistic style and cultural context. Under this condition, the aesthetic ratings by Ruta and colleagues are largely based on perceptual processing that systematically varies along a relatively small set of objective image properties.

Behavioral activation is an effective treatment for reducing depression. As depressive disorders affect many people worldwide, internet-based behavioral activation (iBA) could provide enhanced treatment access. This study aimed to investigate whether iBA is effective in reducing depressive symptoms and to assess the impact on secondary outcomes. We systematically searched MEDLINE, PsycINFO, PSYNDEX, and CENTRAL up to December 2021 for eligible randomized controlled trials. In addition, a reference search was conducted. Title and abstract screening, as well as a full-text screening, was conducted by 2 independent reviewers. Randomized controlled trials that investigated the effectiveness of iBA for depression as a treatment or main component were included. Randomized controlled trials had to report depressive symptoms, with a quantitative outcome measure and assess an adult population with depressive symptoms above cutoff. Two independent reviewers performed the data extraction and risk of bias assessment. Data were pooled in random-effects meta-analyses. The primary outcome was self-reported depressive symptoms posttreatment. This systematic review and meta-analysis followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) reporting guidelines. A total of 12 randomized controlled trials, with 3274 participants (88% female, 43.61 years) were included. iBA was more effective in reducing depressive symptom severity posttreatment than inactive control groups (standardized mean difference -0.49; 95% CI -0.63 to -0.34; P<.001). The overall level of heterogeneity was moderate to substantial (I This systematic review and meta-analysis implies that iBA is effective in reducing depressive symptoms. It represents a promising treatment option, providing treatment access where no treatment is available yet. International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews CRD42021236822; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=236822.

This article examines the place of emotion in modern hospital administration and the relationship between professional identities and emotional landscapes in the healthcare field. The focus is a broad emotional and philosophical investment that many administrators made in their work. In the United States and then in Britain, amidst rapid change in the practice and provision of health services, a new sense of professional identity emerged. This was often underpinned by a kind of emotional investment, one which had to be constructed and cultivated. Here formal training and education, collective identities, and a shared understanding of the kind of personal qualities required were important. The extent to which developments in Britain were influenced by best practice in the US is also striking. This process might best be understood as the further drawing out of established beliefs and ways of working rather than an abstract transfer of ideas and practices across the Atlantic, but there was a distinct Anglo-American dimension to the development of hospital administration.

Evidence suggests that culturally adapted psychological interventions have some benefits in treating diverse ethnic groups. However, the effect of such cultural adaptions specifically in Chinese ethnic groups has not been thoroughly reviewed. We aimed to systematically assess the evidence for the efficacy of different cultural adaptations in treating common mental disorders in people of Chinese descent (ie, ethnic Chinese populations). In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we searched MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CNKI, and WANFANG to identify randomised controlled trials published in English and Chinese from database inception to March 10, 2023. We included trials of culturally adapted psychological interventions in people of Chinese descent (with at least 80% of Han Chinese descent) aged 15 years or older with a diagnosis or subthreshold symptoms of common mental disorders, including depression, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder. We excluded studies that included participants with severe mental disorders (eg, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder), neurodevelopmental disorders, or dementia. Study selection and data extraction were done by two independent reviewers, who extracted data for study characteristics, cultural adaptations, and summary efficacy. The primary outcome was post-intervention change in symptoms (both self-reported and clinician-rated). We used random-effects models to calculate standardised mean differences. Quality was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. The study is registered with PROSPERO (CRD42021239607). We identified 32 791 records, 67 of which were included in our meta-analysis (60 done in mainland China, four in Hong Kong, and one each in Taiwan, Australia, and the USA). We included 6199 participants (mean age 39·32 years [range 16-84]), of whom 2605 (42%) were male and 3247 (52%) were female. Culturally adapted interventions had medium effect sizes in terms of reducing both self-reported (Hedges' g 0·77 [95% CI 0·61-0·94]; I Psychological interventions can be transported across cultures with appropriate modifications. Adaptations to interventions can be made by modifying evidence-based interventions, or in culturally specific ways that are rooted in the sociocultural context. However, findings are limited by the insufficient reporting of interventions and cultural adaptations. None. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Early adverse experience can have a long-term effect on growth and development and negative repercussions into adulthood. Among the various consequences of undernutrition is depression. The present work aimed to evaluate the relationship between early-life undernutrition and depression in adult life. Data were obtained from the PubMed, SCOPUS, and Web of Science databases in November 2021 and were selected using the systematic bibliographic review manager program State of the Art Through Systematic Review. Data were extracted using the State of the Art Through Systematic Review program. Of the 559 articles that were identified, 114 were duplicates, and 426 were excluded after inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied to the title and abstract. One other relevant study was included. From the 20 remaining articles, 8 were excluded after the full-text screening. Finally, 12 articles remained for review in the present work. The studies described in these articles investigated humans, rats, or mice, and correlated early-life malnutrition and depression in adulthood as the principal outcome. Undernutrition in early life and later depression are linked. Furthermore, the knowledge that the risk factors for depression start at the beginning of life points to public health policies starting in intrauterine life and extending throughout childhood and adolescence.

Later-life depression appears to have different symptomatology and possibly underlying pathology to younger adults. Depression is linked to dementia but whether it is a risk factor or an early sign of dementia remains unclear. Neuroinflammation is increasingly recognised in both conditions. To investigate the link between depression, inflammation and dementia. We hypothesised that recurrent depression increases the rate of cognitive decline in older adults and that this effect is modified by anti-inflammatory medication. We used data from Whitehall II including cognitive test results and reliable measures to assess depression. Depression was defined as a self-reported diagnosis or a score of ≥20 on the CESD. The presence/absence of inflammatory illness was assessed using a standardised list of inflammatory conditions. Individuals with dementia, chronic neurological and psychotic conditions were excluded. Logistic and linear regression was used to examine the effect of depression on cognitive test performance and the effect of chronic inflammation. Lack of clinical diagnoses of depression. There were 1063 individuals with and 2572 without depression. Depression did not affect deterioration in episodic memory, verbal fluency or the AH4 test at 15-year follow up. We found no evidence of an effect of anti-inflammatory medication. Depressed individuals had worse cross-sectional performance on the Mill Hill test and tests of abstract reasoning and verbal fluency at both baseline and 15-year follow-up. Using a UK based study with a long follow-up interval we have shown that depression in individuals aged >50 is not associated with increased cognitive decline.

Conviction Narrative Theory holds that reasoners adopt "a narrative that feels 'right' to explain the available data" and use "that narrative to imagine plausible futures" (target article, Abstract). Drawing on feelings-as-information theory, this commentary reviews the role of metacognitive experiences of ease or difficulty and highlights that fluently processed narratives are more likely to "feel right."

Microbiome alterations have been associated with depression, and fecal transfer of depressed patients' microbiomes is sufficient to enhance despair behaviors in rodents. Yet little is known about the potential mechanisms, whereby microbes modulate depressive-like behaviors. In this study, we showed that certain bacteria known to induce Th17 cells are increased in depressed patients and mice exhibiting learned helplessness. Fecal transfers of human depressed patients' microbiomes into germ-free-like mice were sufficient to decrease sociability and increased susceptibility to the learned helplessness paradigm, confirming that the microbiome is sufficient to confer depressive-like behaviors. This microbial effect was dependent on the presence of Th17 cells in the recipient, as germ-free-like recipient mice deficient in Th17 cells were resistant to the behavioral changes induced by the microbiome of depressed patients. Altogether, these findings suggest a crucial role of the microbiome/Th17 cell axis in regulating depressive-like behaviors. Video Abstract.

Previous studies have shown that people implicitly associate the emotional valence of abstract words with vertical position (i.e., positive words up, negative words down), resulting in the so-called valence-space congruency effect. Research has demonstrated that there is a valence-space congruency effect when it comes to emotional words. It's interesting to see that whether the emotional pictures with different levels of valence are mapped to distinct vertical space positions. Here, the event-related potential (ERP) and time-frequency techniques were employed to investigate the neural basis of the valence-space congruency effect of emotional pictures in a spatial Stroop task. Firstly, this study showed that the reaction time of the congruent condition (i.e., positive pictures in the top and negative pictures in the bottom of the screen) was significantly shorter than that of the incongruent condition (i.e., positive pictures in the bottom and negative pictures in the top of the screen), suggesting that exposure to stimuli with positive or negative valence, regardless of whether these stimuli were comprised of words or pictures, would be enough to invoke the vertical metaphor. Moreover, we found that the congruency between the vertical position and the valence of emotional pictures could significantly modulate the amplitude of the P2 component and the Late Positive Component (LPC) in ERP waveforms, as well as the post-stimulus alpha-ERD in the time-frequency plane. This study has conclusively demonstrated the presence of a space-valence congruency effect in emotional pictures and has elucidated the underlying neurophysiological mechanisms associated with the valence-space metaphor.

The aim of this study was the identification and summary of studies examining the relationship between vitamin D levels and the risk of depression and depressive symptoms severity, published between January 2008 and January 2019. A systematic review of literature published within the last 10 years and accessible in PubMed database was conducted by each author separately based on predetermined inclusion criteria. Out of the 823 studies qualified to the initial abstract analysis, 24 were included into the full-text review and 18 into the meta-analysis. Statistically significant odds ratio was obtained for risk of depression in the course of vitamin D deficiency (OR = 1.51; 95% CI: 1.4-1.62; p < 0.01). The analysis of available literature seems to indicate that there is an association between risk of depression and vitamin D deficiency. However, current literature does not give the possibility to state explicitly what is the exact mechanism and direction of this dependency.

We tested whether the association between autistic traits and enhanced performance in visual-perceptual tasks extends to visual working memory capacity. We predicted that any positive effect of autistic traits on visual working memory performance would be greatest during domain-specific tasks, in which visual resources must be relied upon. We used a visual 'matrix' task, involving recall of black-and-white chequered patterns which increased in size, to establish participants' capacity (span). We assessed 144 young adults' (M = 22.0 years, SD = 2.5) performance on abstract, 'low semantic' versus 'high semantic' task versions. The latter offered multimodal coding due to the availability of long-term memory resources that could supplement visual working memory. Participants also completed measures of autistic traits and trait anxiety. Autistic traits, especially Attention to Detail, Attention Switching, and Communication, positively predicted visual working memory capacity, specifically in the low semantic task, which relies on visual working memory resources. Autistic traits are therefore associated with enhanced processing and recall of visual information. The benefit is removed, however, when multimodal coding may be incorporated, emphasising the visual nature of the benefit. Strengths in focused attention to detail therefore appear to benefit domain-specific visual working memory task performance.

Early warning scores based on vital signs are used in hospitals to estimate patient deterioration and to initiate an adequate and timely response when necessary. These scores show acceptable performance in predicting patient outcomes. However, they tend to generate many false positives leading to an increased workload in clinical practice. Additionally, nurses feel a tension between the application of an early warning score and their own clinical judgement. Nurse intuition is often included as an extra call criterion next to an early warning score. It is therefore important to investigate its predictive value. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a Nurse Intuition Patient Deterioration Scale (NIPDS). The NIPDS was developed using the latest evidence after which relevant items were selected by an expert panel. The scale was tested in a prospective observational study in 2 surgical and 2 medical wards in a Belgian hospital. Data were collected from December 1st, 2019 until March 31st, 2020. A NIPDS registration was done at each patient admission and whenever the attending nurse felt worried. The studied outcomes were urgent physician assistance call, resuscitation team call, patient death, and unplanned transfer to intensive/medium care. Psychometric analyses and scale optimisation were carried out using Rasch modelling techniques. Finally, the scale's accuracy and an optimal threshold were determined. The scale item content validity index is 0.88 indicating that the selected items should be included in the instrument according to the expert panel. Item-total score correlation coefficients range between 0.573 (item 9 - pain) and 0.874 (item 6 - behaviour). The Person Separation Index is 0.814 indicating satisfactory discriminatory power. An overall fit of the NIPDS data to the Rasch model was confirmed. Rasch modelling showed that the item 'pain' signalled misfit. Furthermore, the person-item map showed disordered items which were corrected in the final model. The AUROC to predict an event within 24 h after registration was 0.957 (95% CI 0.932-0.982; p < 0.001) indicating excellent model performance. The results showed that the NIPDS is a valid and accurate instrument to predict events in surgical and medical patients. It showed better performance compared to an existing score estimating nurse intuition. In practice, the NIPDS could be used by nurses to estimate clinical deterioration in addition to an early warning score. It remains unclear if the combination of NIPDS with an early warning score could reduce workload without losing accuracy and this should be explored in future research. Newly developed nurse intuition scale, which uses clinical cues to estimate deterioration in hospitalised patients, is brief and performs well in predicting physician assistance, resuscitation team calls, patient death and unplanned transfer to intensive or medium care.

How can general practitioners best help their depressed patients to resume work? 

Positive and negative experiences can alter animal brain dopamine levels.

We used a novel linguistic training paradigm to investigate the experience-dependent acquisition, representation, and processing of novel emotional and neutral abstract concepts. Participants engaged in mental imagery (

Reports a clarification to "Evaluation of an action's effectiveness by the motor system in a dynamic environment" by Eitan Hemed, Shirel Bakbani-Elkayam, Andrei R. Teodorescu, Lilach Yona and Baruch Eitam (

While previous studies have explored the neurocognitive mechanism of novel word learning under sentential contexts, few studies have probed the potential effects of contextual emotions. The current study used behavioral methods and electroencephalography to elucidate the dynamic influences of contextual emotions while encoding abstract or concrete novel words on subsequent retrieval of the learned meanings. Enhanced N400 and smaller late positive components (LPC) were elicited when encoding abstract words in the positive context. Furthermore, negative contexts were found to hinder both abstract and concrete word learning, while positive contexts had a greater inhibitory effect on learning abstract words than concrete words. Taken together, these findings suggest that the effects of contextual emotions on novel word learning depend on the concreteness of the learned word and occur during the early and late processing stages while mapping abstract and concrete semantic concepts to novel words.

Depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide that negatively impacts quality of life. Talk therapy such as cognitive behavioural therapy is an effective treatment for depression. The Internet is an important tool for mental healthcare delivery. Internet-delivered or online talk therapy interventions are associated with lower costs and improved accessibility. Current reviews do not address the effectiveness of Internet-delivered cognitive behavioural therapy (iCBT) on quality of life (QoL). Interventions for iCBT have better QoL improvements for individuals with greater depressive symptom severity, females, young adults and individuals with complex comorbid disorders. Support from a healthcare provider for iCBT interventions have better outcomes than self-guided therapy interventions. Tailoring the iCBT intervention to the specialized needs of the population is beneficial. There is potential to address treatment gaps for managing the care of individuals with depression. Utilizing iCBT promotes the integration of accessible mental healthcare in clinical settings. Healthcare providers can have a more comprehensive approach to delivering iCBT by considering adaptations relevant to the clinical population being treated. INTRODUCTION: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of disability resulting from social, psychological and biological factors affecting quality of life (QoL). Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is an effective psychotherapy for MDD. Internet-delivered CBT (iCBT) is associated with lower costs and improved accessibility. We aimed to examine the effectiveness of iCBT on QoL in adults with depression. PubMed, Embase and PsycINFO were searched between 2010 and 2022. Inclusion criteria were experimental designs, adults ≥18 years old, depression diagnosis or valid self-report measure, iCBT intervention; and QoL outcome. Exclusion criteria were studies without depression analysis and intellectual disabilities or psychosis. Seventeen articles were included, with a negative correlation between depression severity and QoL. Sex, age and physical comorbidity positively influenced effectiveness. Depressive severity, dysfunctional attitude and negative thinking were predictors and moderators of QoL. Clinician support can impact social interactions and sense of belonging. Internet-delivered cognitive behavioural therapy is effective for improving QoL in adults with MDD. Severe depression, females, younger age and comorbid disorders were associated with greater QoL improvements. The findings suggest iCBT could address depression treatment gaps related to improving QoL. Utilizing iCBT potentially improves the care continuum for individuals with complex disorders.

Through the manipulation of color and form, visual abstract art is often used to convey feelings and emotions. Here, we explored how colors and lines are used to express basic emotions and whether non-artists express emotions through art in similar ways as trained artists. Both artists and non-artists created abstract color drawings and line drawings depicting six emotions (i.e., anger, disgust, fear, joy, sadness, and wonder). To test whether people represented basic emotions in similar ways, we computationally predicted the emotion of a given drawing by comparing it to a set of references created by averaging across all other participants' drawings within each emotion category. We found that prediction accuracy was higher for color drawings than line drawings and higher for color drawings by non-artists than by artists. In a behavioral experiment, we found that people (N = 242) could also accurately infer emotions, showing the same pattern of results as our computational predictions. Further computational analyses of the drawings revealed systematic use of certain colors and line features to depict each basic emotion (e.g., anger is generally redder and more densely drawn than other emotions, sadness is more blue and contains more vertical lines). Taken together, these results imply that abstract color and line drawings are able to convey certain emotions based on their visual features, which are also used by human observers to understand the intended emotional connotation of abstract artworks.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The clinical effect of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been confirmed for a majority of patients with several psychiatric disorders. ECT is mostly used in patients with severe depression. Choosing, persevering with and completing ECT depends on the patients' motivation for undergoing this therapy. However, the factors influencing patients' motivation for ECT have not yet been studied. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE: Four important factors that influence the motivation of patients diagnosed with major depression to have ECT were identified: (1) psychological pain and distress; (2) perceived need for treatment; (3) perception of ECT as an effective treatment; (4) influence of the environment. The first factor, psychological pain and distress, was perceived as the primary motivator for starting and continuing ECT. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Professionals should be aware of the factors that influence patients to have electroconvulsive therapy and their own role in the decision-making process and during treatment. As patients are susceptible to emotional support and as the motivation of patients for starting and continuing ECT is positively influenced by the advice and support of mental health professionals, these professionals have a key role in motivating patients for ECT. When the patient has decided to start ECT, mental health professionals should explore the factors that influence their motivation and regularly assess these factors so that they can guide the patient in their process. The professional should have an overview of these factors and investigate how they can be positively influenced to help patients keep their motivation during the treatment process. This will contribute to person-centred care and could lead to better treatment outcomes. ABSTRACT: Introduction The factors influencing patients' motivation for undergoing electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) have not yet been subjected to a thorough study. Knowledge of these factors could improve the quality of care for patients with depression recommended to have ECT. Aim To identify the factors that influence the motivation of patients diagnosed with depression to have ECT. Method This qualitative study followed a grounded theory approach in which semi-structured interviews were conducted with 18 patients from four different psychiatric hospitals to study their perspectives on factors influencing their motivation to have ECT. Results The explanatory framework of factors influencing motivation for ECT comprises four main categories, starting with the most important category, psychological pain and distress, and continuing with the following categories: perceived need for treatment; perception of ECT as an effective treatment; environmental influences. Discussion In this study, we found that the psychological pain and distress of depression, and their consequences in daily life, had been the primary experiences that motivated patients to start and continue ECT. Implications for Practice This is the first study that has examined motivational factors for patients with severe depression to participate in ECT. Professionals appear to have a key role in motivating patients for ECT. They should explore factors that influence motivation for ECT, regularly assess their motivation and intervene on influential factors.

Adherence to treatment, including inhaled therapies, is low in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). Although psychological interventions for improving adherence to inhaled therapies in people with CF have been developed, no previous published systematic review has evaluated the evidence for efficacy of these interventions. The primary objective of the review was to assess the efficacy of psychological interventions for improving adherence to inhaled therapies in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). The secondary objective was to establish the most effective components, or behaviour change techniques (BCTs), used in these interventions. We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register, which is compiled from electronic database searches and handsearching of journals and conference abstract books. We also searched databases (PubMed; PsycINFO; EBSCO; Scopus; OpenGrey), trials registries (World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform; US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register ClinicalTrials.gov), and the reference lists of relevant articles and reviews, with no restrictions on language, year or publication status. Date of search: 7 August 2022. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing different types of psychological interventions for improving adherence to inhaled therapies in people with CF of any age, or comparing psychological interventions with usual care. We included quasi-RCTs if we could reasonably assume that the baseline characteristics were similar in both groups. Two review authors independently assessed trial eligibility and completed data extraction, risk of bias assessments, and BCT coding (using the BCT Taxonomy v1) for all included trials. We resolved any discrepancies by discussion, or by consultation with a third review author as necessary. We assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. We included 10 trials (1642 participants) in the review (children and adolescents in four trials; adults in five trials; and children and adults in one trial). Nine trials compared a psychological intervention with usual care; we could combine data from some of these in a number of quantitative analyses. One trial compared a psychological intervention with an active comparator (education plus problem-solving (EPS)). We identified five ongoing trials. Psychological interventions were generally multi-component and complex, containing an average of 9.6 BCTs (range 1 to 28). The two most commonly used BCTs included 'problem-solving' and 'instruction on how to perform the behaviour'. Interventions varied in their type, content and mode of delivery. They included a problem-solving intervention; a paper-based self-management workbook; a telehealth intervention; a group training programme; a digital intervention comprising medication reminders and lung function self-monitoring; a life-coaching intervention; a motivational interviewing (MI) intervention; a brief MI intervention (behaviour change counselling); and a digital intervention combined with behaviour change sessions. Intervention duration ranged from 10 weeks to 12 months. Assessment time points ranged from six to eight weeks up to 23 months. Psychological interventions compared with usual care We report data here for the 'over six months and up to 12 months' time point. We found that psychological interventions probably improve adherence to inhaled therapies (primary outcome) in people with CF compared with usual care (mean difference (MD) 9.5, 95% confidence interval (CI) 8.60 to 10.40; 1 study, 588 participants; moderate-certainty evidence). There was no evidence of a difference between groups in our second primary outcome, treatment-related adverse events: anxiety (MD 0.30, 95% CI -0.40 to 1.00; 1 study, 535 participants), or depression (MD -0.10, 95% CI -0.80 to 0.60; 1 study, 534 participants), although this was low-certainty evidence. For our secondary outcomes, there was no evidence of a difference between groups in terms of lung function (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV Due to the limited quantity of trials included in this review, as well as the clinical and methodological heterogeneity, it was not possible to identify an overall intervention effect using meta-analysis. Some moderate-certainty evidence suggests that psychological interventions (compared with usual care) probably improve adherence to inhaled therapies in people with CF, without increasing treatment-related adverse events, anxiety and depression (low-certainty evidence). In future review updates (with ongoing trial results included), we hope to be able to establish the most effective BCTs (or 'active ingredients') of interventions for improving adherence to inhaled therapies in people with CF. Wherever possible, investigators should make use of the most objective measures of adherence available (e.g. data-logging nebulisers) to accurately determine intervention effects. Outcome reporting needs to be improved to enable combining or separation of measures as appropriate. Likewise, trial reporting needs to include details of intervention content (e.g. BCTs used); duration; intensity; and fidelity. Large trials with a longer follow-up period (e.g. 12 months) are needed in children with CF. Additionally, more research is needed to determine how to support adherence in 'under-served' CF populations.

What is the central question of this study? The consumption of a high-protein diet has been associated with an anxiogenic factor that can influence anxiety and possible cardiovascular changes: does the consumption of a high-protein diet interfere with anxiety, haemodynamics and morphofunctional aspects of the heart of Wistar rats? What is the main finding and its importance? Our study showed that the high-protein diet did not interfere with anxiety and haemodynamics. The animals in the hyperproteic group showed positive heart adaptations characterized by less work and lower heart rate without impairing ejection fraction and systemic blood pressure. Anxiety is a mechanism preparatory to a response in situations of threat and danger, involving behavioural, affective and physiological factors. Protein-based foods have a high concentration of amino acids which perform multiple functions, including in the biosynthesis of excitatory transmitters for the central nervous system. In recent years, adherence to high-protein diets has been gaining ground in society, on the basis that it brings benefits to the musculoskeletal system and cardiovascular health. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of a high-protein diet in a state of anxiety and to investigate morphofunctional cardiovascular effects of a high-protein diet in Wistar rats. The experiment lasted 8 weeks and two groups of male rats were submitted to either a normoproteic or a hyperproteic diet. Anxiety was assessed using the plus maze test and cardiovascular morphofunctional aspects using transthoracic echocardiography and invasive measurements of femoral blood pressure. There was no statistically significant difference in the anxiety test, but the hyperproteic group was more agitated, with greater displacement during the test. Changes were found in systolic and end-diastolic volume, left ventricular diameter in systole and heart rate, which were significantly lower in the hyperproteic group, and there was an increase in the thickness of the interventricular septum in diastole. The results showed no influence of the higher protein diet on the animals' anxiety, body weight and haemodynamics.

Both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and social health carry high health and economic burdens. We undertook a systematic review to investigate the association between social isolation, low social support, and loneliness with health service utilisation and survival after a CVD event among people living in Australia and New Zealand. Four electronic databases were systematically searched for the period before June 2020. Two reviewers undertook the title/abstract screen. One reviewer undertook a full-text screen and data extraction. A second author checked data extraction. Of 756 records, 25 papers met our inclusion criteria. Included studies recruited 10-12,821 participants, aged 18-98 years, and the majority were males. Greater social support was consistently associated with better outcomes on four of the five themes (discharge destination, outpatient rehabilitation attendance, rehospitalisation and survival outcomes; no papers assessed the length of inpatient stay). Positive social health was consistently associated with better discharge designation to higher independent living. As partner status and living status did not align with social isolation and social support findings in this review, we recommend they not be used as social health proxies. Our systematic review demonstrates that social health is considered in cardiac care decisions and plays a role in how healthcare is being delivered (i.e., outpatient, rehabilitation, or nursing home). This likely contributes to our finding that lower social support is associated with high-intensity healthcare services, lower outpatient rehabilitation attendance, greater rehospitalisation and poorer survival. Given our evidence, the first step to improve cardiac outcomes is acknowledging that social health is part of the decision-making process. Incorporating a formal assessment of social support into healthcare management plans will likely improve cardiac outcomes and survival. Further research is required to assess if support person/s need to engage in the risk reduction behaviours themselves for outpatient rehabilitation to be effective. Further synthesis of the impact of social isolation and loneliness on health service utilisation and survival after a CVD event is required.

A Surgically Treated Depression 

Functional connectivity between the amygdala and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been identified as a neural substrate of emotion regulation that undergoes changes throughout development, with a mature profile typically emerging at 10 years of age. Maternal bonding in childhood has been shown to buffer amygdala reactivity and to influence the trajectory of amygdala-mPFC coupling. The oxytocinergic system is critical in the development of social behavior and maternal bonding. Early-life parental care influences the methylation status of the oxytocin receptor (OXTRm) in animal models and humans, and higher OXTRm is associated with lower amygdala-PFC functional connectivity in adults. Using a neuroimaging-epigenetic approach, we investigated saliva-derived OXTRm as a biological marker of structural and functional connectivity maturation in 57 typically developing children (P < 0.05). We utilized seed-based connectivity analysis during a novel abstract movie paradigm and find that higher levels of OXTRm are associated with a more adult-like functional connectivity profile. Concurrently, more adult-like functional connectivity was associated with higher reported self-control and more diffusion streamlines between the amygdala and mPFC. OXTRm mediates the association between structural and functional connectivity with higher levels of OXTRm being associated with more streamlines. Lastly, we also find that lower OXTRm blunts the association between amygdala-mPFC connectivity and future internalizing behaviors in early adolescence. These findings implicate OXTRm as a biological marker at the interface of the social environment and amygdala-mPFC connectivity in emotional and behavioral regulation. Ultimately, identification of neurobiological markers may lead to earlier detection of children at risk for socio-emotional dysfunction.

Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common vestibular disorders, and is treated effectively with particle repositioning maneuvers (PRM). The aim of this study was to assess the influence of BPPV and treatment effects of PRM on gait, falls, and fear of falling. Three databases and the reference lists of included articles were systematically searched for studies comparing gait and/or falls between (1) people with BPPV (pwBPPV) and controls and (2) pre- and posttreatment with PRM. The Joanna Briggs Institute critical appraisal tools were used to assess risk of bias. Twenty of the 25 included studies were suitable for meta-analysis. Quality assessment resulted in 2 studies with high risk of bias, 13 with moderate risk, and 10 with low risk. PwBPPV walked slower and demonstrated more sway during tandem walking compared with controls. PwBPPV also walked slower during head rotations. After PRM, gait velocity during level walking increased significantly, and gait became safer according to gait assessment scales. Impairments during tandem walking and walking with head rotations did not improve. The number of fallers was significantly higher for pwBPPV than for controls. After treatment, the number of falls, number of pwBPPV who fell, and fear of falling decreased. BPPV increases the odds of falls and negatively impacts spatiotemporal parameters of gait. PRM improves falls, fear of falling, and gait during level walking. Additional rehabilitation might be necessary to improve gait while walking with head movements or tandem walking.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see the Supplemental Digital Content Video, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A421 ).

Pathological Demand Avoidance: Current State of Research and Critical Discussion 

• Develop and implement treatment plans for children and adolescents with functional neurological disorder (FND)• Outline a plan to increase awareness and standardize the care for patients with FND using evidence-based interventions. Functional neurological disorder (FND) in children and adolescents involves the biological embedding of lived experience in the body and brain. This embedding culminates in stress-system activation or dysregulation and in aberrant changes in neural network function. In pediatric neurology clinics, FND represents up to one-fifth of patients. Current research shows good outcomes with prompt diagnosis and treatment using a biopsychosocial, stepped-care approach. At present, however-and worldwide-FND services are scarce, the result of long-standing stigma and ingrained belief that patients with FND do not suffer from a real ("organic") disorder and that they therefore do not require, or even deserve, treatment. Since 1994, the Mind-Body Program for children and adolescents with FND at The Children's Hospital at Westmead in Sydney, Australia-run by a consultation-liaison team-has delivered inpatient care to hundreds of patients with FND and outpatient care to hundreds of others. For less-disabled patients, the program enables community-based clinicians to implement biopsychosocial interventions locally by providing a positive diagnosis (by a neurologist or pediatrician), a biopsychosocial assessment and formulation (by clinicians from the consultation-liaison team), a physical therapy assessment, and clinical support (from the consultation-liaison team and the physiotherapist). In this Perspective we describe the elements of a biopsychosocial mind-body program intervention capable of providing, as needed, effective treatment to children and adolescents with FND. Our aim is to communicate to clinicians and institutions around the world what is needed to establish effective community treatment programs, as well as hospital inpatient and outpatient interventions, in their own health care settings.

Mental health symptoms such as depression, anxiety and sleep problems are commonly observed in individuals suffering from acute COVID-19 infection to post-COVID-19 syndrome. Studies have provided preliminary evidence for the efficacies of cognitive behavioural therapy, mindfulness-based interventions, acceptance and commitment therapy, and many other treatments for this population. Although there have been attempts to synthesise the literature on these psychological interventions, previous reviews have been limited in terms of the sources, symptoms and interventions that they included. Furthermore, most studies reviewed were conducted in early 2020, when COVID-19 had only recently been classified as a global pandemic. Since then, substantial research has been conducted. As such, we sought to provide an updated synthesis of the available evidence of treatments for the range of mental health symptoms associated with COVID-19. This scoping review protocol was developed according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews. Systematic searches were carried out on scientific databases (PubMed, Web of Science, PsycINFO and Scopus) and clinical trial registries (ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP, EU Clinical Trials Register and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) to identify studies that have or will assess the efficacy or any aspects of psychological treatment for acute to post-COVID-19 syndrome. The search was conducted on 14 October 2022 and identified 17 855 potentially eligible sources/studies published since 1 January 2020 (duplicates removed). Six investigators will independently carry out titles and abstract screening, full-text screening and data charting and the results will be summarised using descriptive statistics and narrative synthesis. Ethical approval is not required for this review. The results will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed journal, conference presentations and/or academic newspapers. This scoping review has been registered with Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/wvr5t).

Affective disorders are a debilitating and very prevalent problem throughout the world. Often these are associated with the onset of comorbidities or a consequence of chronic diseases. Anxiety and depression are associated with poor social and personal relationships, compromised health. We aimed to synthesize evidence from studies measuring the impact of a health literacy (HL) intervention on the improvement of affective disorders. For this systematic review and meta-analysis, we searched PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, Ibecs, Cuiden, Scielo, Science Direct and Dialnet for exclusively randomized controlled trial studies (RCTs) published between 1 Jan 2011, and 31 May 2022. The search terms employed were "health literacy," "health knowledge," "anxiety," "anxiety disorder," "depression," "depressive disorder," and "adult." The risk of bias assessment was performed using the Cochrane Collaboration Revised Risk of Bias tool (RoB2). We conducted random-effects meta-analyses and explored heterogeneity using meta-regression and a stratified survey. Of 2,863 citations found through the initial screening, 350 records were screened by the title and abstract for their themes and relevance. Finally, nine studies complied with the inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis. 66.66% of studies ( Our findings demonstrate that an HL intervention in relation to the symptoms associated with affective disorders improves the emotional state of patients in PHC, with a moderately positive effect in reducing depression and anxiety.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Supervised Quarantine has been shown to impact the psychological well-being of those in quarantine both during the COVID-19 pandemic and in previous pandemics. There are few studies regarding the psychological impact of supervised quarantine for the purpose of COVID-19 mitigation. There is little research regarding the psychological well-being of professionals maintaining quarantine, despite the fact they risk potential psychological distress. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper addresses the paucity of knowledge regarding the psychological well-being of those undergoing quarantine in a purpose-built facility. The quarantined study population involved uniquely domestic arrivals and also professionals maintaining quarantine. Lack of control, isolation and miscommunication were perceived as challenging mental well-being. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Although psychological distress in Domestic arrivals appeared low, there are still identifiable stresses on mental well-being. Mental health workers need to be cognizant that point entry to COVID-19 quarantine (Domestic vs. International as well as specific regions) may influence risk of psychological distress. Mental Health nurses supporting those in quarantine should afford quarantined individuals a degree of choice, establish regular clear communication and consider how to establish peer support mechanisms within the quarantine environment. INTRODUCTION: Supervised quarantine may compromise psychological well-being. There is equivocal evidence regarding psychological distress in compulsory supervised quarantine facilities. To evaluate the mental well-being of people undergoing and working in a supervised COVID-19 quarantine facility. Mixed methodology was used, including a cross-sectional analysis of psychological distress (DASS-21) and individual semi-structured interviews (10 professionals maintaining quarantine and 10 quarantined persons). Overall levels of psychological distress were low. Those quarantining from Victoria had significantly lower depression scores compared to all other departure points. Qualitative analysis identified distress being linked to a lack of control, isolation and miscommunication. Quarantine was associated with low levels of psychological distress. This was lower in people travelling from Victoria, a state where there were higher rates of infections and restrictions. Interviews showed that psychological distress was conceptualized as being associated with supervised quarantine, but participants recognized the overall importance of quarantine. Mental health professionals supporting quarantined people should consider original departure points may predict levels of psychological distress. Implementing ways of gaining control through affording choice, improving communication channels and establishing peer support networks within quarantine settings may help maintain mental well-being.

Infertile individuals desire support, as they are highly vulnerable to multi-dimensional distress. However, support from family, friends and professionals has been found to be inadequate for their needs. Online peer support communities are avenues where infertile individuals come together virtually to share experiences and provide peer support. Though they are known to fulfil the major need of understanding and sharing experiences, little is known about their actual role in supporting individuals struggling with infertility. To systematically consolidate and explore the role of online peer support communities for infertile individuals. This is a systematic mixed-studies review. Eight published and unpublished databases were screened for English studies from inception to October 2022: PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Scopus and ProQuest. Forty-nine studies were included, and quality was appraised using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. Data-based convergent qualitative (narrative and thematic) synthesis was conducted. An overarching theme titled: Online peer support, a 'double-edged sword' and four themes were identified: 1) Receiving varied types of support with mutual benefits; 2) convenient and "safe haven" with diverse options for struggling couples; 3) herd mentality and negative collective emotions; and 4) credibility, confidentiality, and misinformation. The online communities were mainly utilised by couples in their late 20s to early 30s and the users were predominantly females. Online communities were mostly on forums and popular social media sites, public and unmoderated. Findings revealed that there were two-way benefits for both providers and receivers of peer support. Online communities were also found to be convenient and "safe haven" with diverse options for struggling couples. Conversely for some couples, online communities led to negative collective emotions and feelings of "unrelatedness" despite being among "similar others". Lastly, some couples raised concerns around the credibility, confidentiality, and misinformation from the online communities. Whilst online communities are crucial in the individuals' journey through infertility, they can act as a 'double-edged' sword if not managed by professionals. Healthcare professionals can monitor online communities to improve fertility care for individuals; advice individuals to use online communities with caution, rain peer volunteers and develop expert-moderated peer support online communities. PROSPERO [CRD42022291461]. Online peer-to-peer support communities may be a double-edged sword for infertile individuals.

Willems (this issue) proposes a neurocognitive model with a central role allotted to ambiguity in perceived morality and emotion in driving involvement of reflective/mentalizing processes. We argue that abstractness of representation has more explanatory power in this respect. We illustrate this with examples from the verbal and non-verbal domain showing a) concrete-ambiguous emotions processed through reflexive systems and b) abstract-unambiguous emotions processed through the mentalizing system, counter to MA-EM model predictions. However, due to the natural correlation between ambiguity and abstractness, both accounts will typically make convergent predictions.

A recent review shows an interdependence between healthcare providers and relatives in the context of euthanasia. Belgian guidelines do focus on the role of certain healthcare providers (physicians, nurses, and psychologists), yet they hardly specify bereavement care services before, during and after the euthanasia. A conceptual model showing underlying mechanisms of healthcare providers' experiences regarding the interaction with and the provision of bereavement care to relatives of cancer patients throughout a euthanasia process. 47 semi-structured interviews with Flemish physicians, nurses and psychologists working in hospitals and/or homecare, conducted from September 2020 to April 2022. Transcripts were analyzed using the Constructivist Grounded Theory Approach. Participants experienced the interaction with relatives as very diverse, which can be visualized as a continuum ranging from negative to positive, depending on each unique case. The achieved degree of serenity was the main contributor in determining their position on the aforementioned continuum. To create this serene atmosphere, healthcare providers undertook actions underpinned by two attitudes (wariness and meticulousness), which are guided by different considerations. These considerations can be categorized into three groups: 1) ideas about a good death and its importance, 2) having the situation well under control and 3) self-reassurance. If relatives were not at peace, most participants said that they deny a request or formulate additional requirements. Moreover, they wanted to ensure relatives can cope with the loss, which was often experienced as intense and time-consuming. Our insights shape needs-based care from healthcare providers' perspective in the context of euthanasia. Future research should explore the relatives' perspective regarding this interaction and the provision of bereavement care. Professionals strive for a serene atmosphere throughout a euthanasia process to ensure relatives can cope with the loss, and the way in which the patient died.

Older people with frailty are more likely to experience negative psychological well-being, depressive symptoms, anxiety, and stress. Deterioration of psychological outcomes, in turn, further aggravates the frailty status among this vulnerable population. Considering the undesirable effects of polypharmacy on older people, the use of non-pharmacological intervention has attracted increasing attention. However, the effects of non-pharmacological interventions on psychological outcomes are not clear. This review aims to systematically identify and synthesise evidence to examine the effectiveness of non-pharmacological interventions on psychological outcomes among older people with frailty. Eight electronic databases, including PubMed, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, APA PsycInfo, Cochrane Library, CNKI and WANFANG were searched from inception to 14 November 2022. Randomised controlled trials and clinical controlled trials of non-pharmacological interventions on psychological outcomes in older people with frailty were included. The quality of the included studies was assessed using The Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool v2. Meta-analysis was performed using the RevMan5.3. The certainty of the evidence was evaluated by GRADE approach. A total of 4726 articles were initially identified and screened for title and abstract. Eventually, 13 articles from 11 studies were included in this review. The results of the overall risk of bias indicated that four studies had low risk; five studies had some concerns, and two studies had high risk. Four types of intervention were identified, including physical exercise (n = 3), complementary and alternative medicine (music therapy = 1, acupressure = 1), case management (n = 5), and advance care planning (n = 1). The pooled analysis showed that group-based physical exercise had significant beneficial effects on depressive symptoms (SMD: -0.46, 95% CI: -0.81 to -0.10, p = .01; low certainty). There is no difference between the effects of case management and usual care on depressive symptoms (SMD: 0.02, 95% CI: -0.14 to 0.19, p = .79; high certainty). Narrative synthesis of evidence suggested the effects of complementary and alternative medicine on improving depressive symptoms and general mental status. Psychological outcomes in older people with frailty are understudied. Group-based physical exercise could be a strategy to reduce depressive symptoms among older people with frailty. There is limited evidence showing the effects of complementary and alternative medicine on improving psychological outcomes. More rigorous trials are needed to examine the effects of non-pharmacological interventions on psychological outcomes among older people with frailty. (PROSPERO): CRD42022303370.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease with motor symptoms that are well understood, but non-motor symptoms may be present and appear at different temporal stages of the disease. Physical activity based on dance movements is emerging as a complementary therapeutic approach to a range of PD symptoms as a multidimensional activity that requires rhythmic synchronization and more neuromuscular functions. To evaluate the effects of physical activity based on dance movements on the movement, executive functions, depressive symptoms, quality of life, and severity of PD in individuals diagnosed with PD. 13 individuals with PD (Hoehn & Yahr I-III, MDS-UPDRS 67.62 ± 20.83), underwent physical activity based on dance movements (2x week for 6 months). Participants were assessed at baseline and after 6 months on movement (POMA, TUG and MDS-UPDRS Part III), executive function (FAB), depressive symptoms (MADRS), quality of life (PDQ-39), and severity of PD (MDS-UPDRS TOTAL). Student's t-test was used to compare pre and post-intervention results. We observed a significant improvement in the movement (balance and gait) by the POMA test, p = 0.0207, executive function by the FAB test, p = 0.0074, abstract reasoning and inhibitory control by the FAB, Conceptualization test, p = 0.0062, and Inhibitory Control, p = 0.0064, depressive symptoms assessed by the MADRS test significantly reduced, p = 0.0214, and the quality of life by the PDQ-39 had a significant increase after the intervention, p = 0.0006, showed significant improvements between the pre-and post-intervention periods of physical activity based on dance movements. Physical activity based on dance movements contributed to significant improvements in movement (balance and gait), executive functions, especially in cognitive flexibility and inhibitory control, and the quality of life too. Sensorimotor integration, most cognitive processing and social skills may have contributed to the results. The study was registered in the Brazilian registry of clinical trials: RBR-3bhbrb5.

Trauma Disorders - A Relevant Health Problem 

The disruptions to community functioning caused by the COVID-19 pandemic spurred individuals to action. This empirical study investigated the social, emotional, and behavioral (SEB) skill antecedents to college students' volunteering during the COVID-19 pandemic (N = 248, Mage = 20.6). We assessed eight SEB skills at the onset of a volunteering program, and students' volunteer hours were assessed 10-weeks later. Approximately 41.5% of the sample did not complete any volunteer hours. Higher levels of perspective taking skill, abstract thinking skill, and stress regulation were associated with more time spent volunteering. These results suggest that strength in particular SEB skills can prospectively predict prosocial civic behaviors.

Recently, ecological damage and environmental pollution have become increasingly serious. Experts in various fields have started to study related issues from diverse points of view. To prevent the accelerated deterioration of the ecological environment, ecolinguistics emerged. Eco-critical discourse analysis is one of the important parts of ecolinguistics research, that is, it is a critical discourse analysis of the use of language from the perspective of the language's ecological environment. Firstly, an ecological tone and modality system are constructed from an ecological perspective. Under the guidance of the ecological philosophy of "equality, harmony, and symbiosis", this study conducts an ecological discourse analysis on the Sino-US trade friction reports, aiming to present the similarities and differences between the two newspapers' trade friction discourses and to reveal the ecological significance of international ecological factors in the discourse. Secondly, this method establishes a vector expression of abstract words based on emotion dictionary resources and introduces emotion polarity and part-of-speech features of words. Then the word vector is formed into the text feature matrix, which is used as the input of the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model, and the Back Propagation algorithm is adopted to train the model. Finally, in the light of the trained CNN model, the unlabeled news is predicted, and the experimental results are analyzed. The results reveal that during the training process of Chinese and English datasets, the accuracy of the training set can reach nearly 100%, and the loss rate can be reduced to 0. On the test set, the classification accuracy of Chinese text can reach 83%, while that of English text can reach 90%, and the experimental results are ideal. This study provides an explanatory approach for ecological discourse analysis on the news reports of Sino-US trade frictions and has certain guiding significance for the comparative research on political news reports under different ideologies between China and the United States.

The objective of this mixed methods review is to examine the effectiveness and experience of social phone programs on loneliness and/or mood in community-dwelling older adults. There is a large and growing older adult population that is burdened with loneliness. Loneliness affects both physical and mental health, and it is, therefore, imperative to examine ways of mitigating experiences of loneliness. Social phone programs are being offered through multiple organizations as a way of increasing socialization and decreasing loneliness in older adults. There is a need to examine existing data on social phone programs to determine their effectiveness and optimize their implementation. Included studies will be original qualitative, quantitative, or mixed methods research, along with gray literature, examining the use of social phone programs to address loneliness and/or mood in older adults. A convergent segregated mixed methods approach will be used, in line with the JBI methodology for mixed methods reviews. Articles will be searched in selected databases, sources of clinical trials, and gray literature. No limits have been set for language or date of publication. Two team members will select studies through title and abstract screening and then full-text screening. Critical appraisal will be performed in accordance with the standard JBI critical assessment tools, although no articles will be excluded based on this appraisal. Quantitative articles will be synthesized using meta-analysis, while a process of meta-aggregation will be used for qualitative articles. The findings will be integrated into a final report. PROSPERO CRD42022335119.

Gestational trophoblastic diseases (GTD) comprise a group of rare diseases originating from the trophoblast affecting women of childbearing age. Providing optimal information to patients with a rare disease is challenging because of the small number of patients and limited clinical expertise of many healthcare professionals. Both knowledge and lack of knowledge in patients may influence illness perception. We investigated whether a web-based interactive intervention influences illness perception and knowledge in women with GTD. This was a multicenter randomized control trial conducted at general and academic hospitals in the Netherlands, including newly diagnosed GTD patients between 2017 and 2019. Sixty-nine patients were randomized between direct access or postponed access to an online tool on GTD and received online questionnaires about illness perception, knowledge, and anxiety. The main outcome measures were illness perception (primary outcome measure) and knowledge (secondary outcome measure). Patients using the online tool were satisfied with the information from the tool (92%). Although they had a higher level of knowledge compared to the control group (p = 0.006), illness perception did not change. Also, no differences in levels of anxiety, depression, or distress were observed between the groups. Participants had access to other information sources and many searched other websites. It is unknown what kind of websites were visited and when. It is unknown if the increased knowledge levels and low levels of distress will sustain over time as no long term follow-up took place. Healthcare professionals were not interviewed on how they experienced the consultation before and after using the tool by the patients. The online tool did not change illness perception but was shown to be valuable for newly diagnosed GTD patients to gain knowledge. The improvement in knowledge after digital education indicates that this tool can be used as an effective method of supporting GTD patients' informational needs without causing extra distress. A web-based tool for trophoblastic disease does not change illness perception of patients but is valuable to gain knowledge.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Problematic internet use (PIU) negatively affects adolescents' lives biopsychosocially. There is limited qualitative research examining the problem of PIU in adolescents. These studies focused more on the non-clinical population. Adolescents' perceptions of the internet, their thoughts, feelings and behaviours in situations where they can and cannot access the internet have rarely been examined. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This research provides an in-depth look at the experiences of adolescents with PIU in a clinical population. Unlike previous studies, adolescents mentioned that they turned to the internet for reasons such as lack of activity, their need to spend time with their friends and better getting along with people they met on the internet. They also described a world without internet as apocalypse, desert and grave. In this study, a holistic emphasis was placed on the thoughts, feelings and behaviours of adolescents in situations where they could and could not access the internet. This may contribute especially to mental health nurses working in clinics in terms of understanding the thought-emotion and behaviour patterns of adolescents with PIU. Adolescents also stated that their lives were affected positively and negatively as a result of PIU. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses can use activity therapy, behaviour modification: social skills, coping enhancement, parent education: adolescent, self-awareness enhancement, cognitive restructuring, emotion and behaviour management interventions to reduce the risk of PIU and the problems it causes for adolescents. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses can use activity therapy, behaviour modification: social skills, coping enhancement, parent education: adolescent, self-awareness enhancement, cognitive restructuring, emotion and behaviour management interventions to reduce the risk of PIU and the problems it causes for adolescents. INTRODUCTION: Studies on problematic internet use (PIU) are mostly on the non-clinical population. Understanding the experiences of adolescents with PIU is critical in shaping nursing interventions and improving the quality of care. A comprehensive description of the experiences of adolescents with PIU. In the study, descriptive phenomenology design, one of the qualitative research methods, was used. Data were collected using a personal information form and a semi-structured interview form and analysed using Giorgi's phenomenological method (n = 11). As a result of the content analysis, five main themes were identified: reasons of PIU, internet-related perceptions, experiences in accessing the internet, experiences in not being able to access the internet and consequences of internet use. Different from previous studies, adolescents stated that they use the internet because of their lack of activity and their need to spend time with their friends. They stated that when they could not access the internet, they thought they could never live without the internet and started quarrel.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: International reviews have looked at therapy outcomes for patients on mental health wards, showing it is associated with reduced emotional distress and readmission. Reviews have not looked at which specific treatments are most effective. No review has been done in England and Wales for patients detained specifically under the Mental Health Act. The paper gives an overview of the limited evidence in England and Wales. The paper shows which therapies have been measured. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Larger studies are needed across all types of patient wards in England and Wales with random allocation to types of therapy and longer-term follow-up. More studies are needed where researchers are not aware of the therapy being delivered. More studies need to use a mixture of patient and clinician outcome measures. Outcomes should also measure incident, readmission and reoffending rates. More evidence is needed from patients who are female, non-white and who are diagnosed with depression and anxiety. INTRODUCTION: The efficacy of psychological interventions delivered under the Mental Health Act (1983) (MHA) in England and Wales is unclear. While meta-analyses have reviewed acute and forensic psychological interventions in wider geographical areas, there has been no review specifically in the unique MHA context. A systematic review was conducted of psychological outcomes for inpatients detained under the MHA in England and Wales. Diagnoses and type of psychological intervention were not restricted, provided a psychological outcome measure was used. Studies were identified through APA PsychInfo, MEDLINE, CINAHL and Academic Search using a combination of key terms. Data extraction included effect direction, statistical significance, intervention type, format and duration, study size, inpatient setting, control group and study quality. High-quality evidence was sparse. Some improvements were found in overall well-being, self-esteem, social functioning, problem-solving, substance use, anger, offending attitudes, fire-setting, violence, anxiety, depression, personality disorder and psychosis. However, the overall evidence base is lacking. Larger-scale randomized controlled trials are needed across secure, acute and learning disability inpatient settings in England and Wales with longer term follow-up, blind assessors and both self-report and clinician-rated measures, as well as incident, readmission and reoffending rates. Greater representation is needed of females, non-white groups and affective disorders. The efficacy of psychological interventions for inpatients detained under the MHA in England and Wales remains unclear. Clinicians are encouraged to use relevant outcome measures in relation to treatment goals, to monitor the efficacy of interventions being offered to this client group. This paper highlights the current body of evidence for psychological interventions in inpatient settings within England and Wales, which is an environment in which mental health nursing plays an important role in patients' recovery. This evidence is also particularly important as there is a shift in clinical practice to training nursing staff to deliver some of the low-intensity psychological interventions, such as behavioural activation, solution-focussed therapy and motivational interviewing.

Reactivated fear memories may enter an unstable state that could be interrupted by behavioral interventions such as the retrieval-extinction procedure. Studies of pharmacological interventions have shown that retrieval cues are not necessarily an exact reduplication of initial conditioned stimuli (CSs); they can instead be abstract word cues. However, the effectiveness of using abstract reminder cues in behavioral intervention procedures remains unknown, as do the conditions under which they are effective. The typicality of CS and the abstraction level of reminders are also likely to be important in the paradigm but have not been investigated to date. Here, in three experiments (n = 107), we manipulate the fear conditioning process, including single CS-unconditioned stimulus (US) and multiple CS-US connections, as well as the CS typicality and abstraction level of reminder cues, to explore the conditions for adopting retrieval-extinction with abstract reminders. The results of Experiments 1 and 2 show that the abstract cue is ineffective for use as a reminder in the procedure; this is the case for single exemplar category learning and perceptual discriminative learning, independent of the typicality of CS+ or the abstraction level of reminder cues. Only the outcome of Experiment 3, which contains multiple CS-US connections, shows no indication of fear return. The limitations of the study and possible interpretations of the results are discussed.

Depression occurs frequently in all phases of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. Altered activity in the immune system is seen in both depression and schizophrenia. We aimed to uncover depressive trajectories in a sample of 144 adult individuals with schizophrenia spectrum disorders followed for one year, in order to identify possible cytokine profile differences. Patients were assessed longitudinally with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS), where a score above 6 predicts depression. The serum cytokine concentrations for tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12p70 and IL-17A were measured using immunoassays. Latent growth curve models, multilevel models and latent class growth analysis (LCGA) were applied. The LCGA model supported three latent classes (trajectories) with differing CDSS profiles during the one-year follow-up: a high CDSS group (40.8 % of participants), a moderate CDSS group (43.9 %) and a low CDSS group (15.3 %). Five single PANSS items predicted affiliation to depressive trajectory: hallucinations, difficulty in abstract thinking, anxiety, guilt feelings and tension. In the high CDSS group, despite diminishing psychotic symptoms, depressive symptoms persisted throughout one year. The pro-inflammatory cytokines IFN-γ, IL-1β and TNF-α were differentially distributed between the depressive trajectories, although levels remained remarkably stable throughout 12 months. Significant changes were found for the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 at baseline with an accompanying difference in change over time. More research is required to optimize future treatment stratification and investigate the contribution of inflammation in depressed patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders.

Recognising emotions in humans is a great challenge in the present era and has several applications under affective computing. Deep learning (DL) is found as a successful tool for prediction of human emotions in different modalities. To predict 3D emotions with high accuracy in multichannel physiological signals, i.e. electroencephalogram (EEG). A hybrid DL model consisting of convolutional neural network (CNN) and gated recurrent units (GRU) is proposed in this work for emotion recognition in EEG data. CNN has the capability of learning abstract representation, whereas GRU can explore temporal correlation. A bi-directional variation of GRU is used here to learn features in both directions. Discrete and dimensional emotion indices are recognised in two publicly available datasets SEED and DREAMER, respectively. A fused feature of energy and Shannon entropy (𝐸𝑛𝑆𝐸→) and energy and differential entropy (𝐸𝑛𝐷𝐸→) are fed in the proposed classifier to improve the efficiency of the model. The performance of the presented model is measured in terms of average accuracy, which is obtained as 86.9% and 93.9% for SEED and DREAMER datasets, respectively. The proposed convolution bi-directional gated recurrent unit neural network (CNN-BiGRU) model outperforms most of the state-of-the-art and competitive hybrid DL models, which indicates the effectiveness of emotion recognition using EEG signals and provides a scientific base for the implementation in human-computer interaction (HCI).

Previous research has shown that exposure to immersive virtual nature environments is able to induce positive affective and physiological effects. However, research on the effects on cognitive performance is scarce. Additionally, the effects of virtual nature exposure compared to a virtual control environment with a comparable amount of virtual objects have not been examined so far. Therefore, we conducted an experiment with 27 participants to study the psychological effects of such exposure. The virtual nature consisted of a 3D model of a typical forest environment, whereas the control environment was an abstract replication of the virtual forest environment. In both environments, a virtual wooden cart was used to transport the users from the start to the end of the virtual road. The typical background noise of moving such a cart was integrated into both environments as well. In addition, the virtual nature environment included typical forest sounds in the background, whereas the control condition did not have such background sounds. Both environments were compared with regard to their effects on cognitive performance (using trail making tests (TMTA, TMTB, and TMTB-A) as well as digit span forward and digit span backward tests), perceived restorativeness, mood, stress, sense of presence, and simulator sickness. The results showed that in comparison to the control environment, exposure to the virtual nature resulted in significantly higher cognitive performance, higher perceived restorativeness, higher positive affect, higher sense of presence, lower perceived stress, and lower simulator sickness.

Functional Heart Complaints 

Manhood is a precarious social status. Under perceived gender identity threat, men are disproportionately likely to enact certain stereotype-consistent responses such as aggression to maintain their gender status. Yet less is known regarding individual variation in men's threat responsiveness-that is, the psychological conditions under which one's masculine identity is more or less "fragile." We propose a novel model of masculine identity whereby masculine norm expectancy generates discrepancy within the self to the extent that rigid norms are internalized as obligational (actual-ought discrepancy) versus aspirational (actual-ideal discrepancy), which predict extrinsic versus intrinsic motivations to reduce these discrepancies, respectively. Under threat, then, extrinsic motivations predict externalized responses (e.g., aggression), and intrinsic motivations elicit internalized responses (e.g., anxiety, shame, self-harm). We also consider the conditions under which masculinity may be less fragile-for example, in contexts with less rigid expectations and among men who reject expectations-as pathways to mitigate adverse masculinity threat-related outcomes. In many cultures, men prove their manhood by engaging in behaviors that harm themselves and others (e.g., violence, sexism, homophobia), particularly people from marginalized groups. Yet less is known about why some men are more likely than others to enact these masculinity-proving behaviors. The goal of our model is to specify certain conditions under which masculinities become "fragile" and elicit these responses when under threat. We start by describing the rigid expectations men experience-for example, that they are strong and tough. We propose that these expectations cause men to experience different forms of discrepancy within themselves that produce corresponding motivations to reduce these discrepancies. Under threat, motivations driven by others' expectations elicit outward attempts to restore masculine status (e.g., aggression), whereas motivations driven by self-ideals cause internalized responses (e.g., shame, self-harm). We conclude by discussing how to reduce these discrepancies, such as mitigating the rigidity of and encouraging men's resistance to masculinity expectations.

I present a theory of creative and destructive value state referring to abstract art. Value is a probabilistic state held as a mixture of its expectation and information forces that coexist in a give-and-take relationship. Expectations are driven by the disclosure of novel information about the value state of various events of desire. Each bit of accumulated information contributes to the improvement of perception up to a threshold level, beyond which begin conscious states. The desire to disclose a value state triggers a triadic system of evaluation which uses concepts, observables and approaches. While the triadic valuation mechanisms can be used to assess various commodities, the scope of this work is limited to the case of artworks, in particular abstract paintings. I assume that art value is basically mediated by the interplay between these value state mechanisms of creation and destruction. Expectations in artwork develop attraction by challenging its contemplator to evaluate (predict) its meaning. Once the relevant information, corresponding to its creative expectations, is acquired (and conditioned), emotional states of indifference, disinterest and desensitization develop.

School-to-work transition is crucial for young adults, requiring them to maintain their values-based action, even though this task is likely to cause rumination associated with depression. In the HExAGoN model, individuals with rumination tend to engage in abstract-analytic thought (AAT) but not in concrete-experiential thought (CET). Although this inflexible style of thought is assumed to decrease values-based action and increase depression, no empirical research has examined these relationships in young adults during their transition period. Therefore, this study examined the bidirectional relationships between AAT, CET, depression, and values-based action in young adults. A one-year five-wave longitudinal survey was conducted on 756 third-year university students who engaged in job searches in Japan. Cross-lagged panel model and random-intercept cross-lagged panel model were used to estimate the bidirectional relationships at the between-person and within-person levels, respectively. AAT and CET had bidirectional associations with depression and values-based action at the between-person level. Furthermore, CET decreased depression and marginally improved values-based action at the within-person level. The study comprised only university students in Japan and had a high attrition rate. The findings suggest that CET can reduce depression and improve values-based action in young adults undergoing the transition. It may also expand the understanding of the treatment and prevention of depression in young adults.

This theme issue aims to view the literature on concepts through a novel lens, that of social interaction and its influence on inner experiences. It discusses unsolved problems in literature on concepts, emphasizing the distinction between concrete versus abstract concepts and external versus internal grounding. This introductory article reflects the two research streams that the theme aims to bridge-in this area, the dimension of embodied interaction with others and how this influences the interaction with ourselves is still underexplored. In the first part, we discuss recent trends in social cognition, showing how interacting with others influences our concepts. In the second part, we address how social interactions become part of our inner world in a Vygotskian fashion. First, we illustrate how interoception, emotion and metacognition are connected with concepts and knowledge. Second, we deal with how language, in both its outer and inner form, can empower cognition and concepts. We also briefly describe how novel experimental and computational methods contribute to investigating the online use of concepts. Overall, this introductory article outlines the potentialities of an integrated and interactive approach that can give new, fresh life to a topic, that of concepts, which lies at the root of human cognition. This article is part of the theme issue 'Concepts in interaction: social engagement and inner experiences'.

We explore the role of inner speech (covert self-directed talk) during the acquisition and use of concepts differing in abstractness. Following Vygotsky, inner speech results from the internalization of linguistically mediated interactions that regulate cognition and behaviour. When we acquire and process abstract concepts, uncertainties about word meaning might lead us to search actively for their meaning. Inner speech might play a role in this searching process and be differentially involved in concept learning compared with use of known concepts. Importantly, inner speech comes in different varieties-e.g. it can be expanded or condensed (with the latter involving syntactic and semantic forms of abbreviation). Do we use inner speech differently with concepts varying in abstractness? Which kinds of inner speech do we preferentially use with different kinds of abstract concepts (e.g. emotions versus numbers)? What other features of inner speech, such as dialogicality, might facilitate our use of concepts varying in abstractness (by allowing us to monitor the limits of our knowledge in simulated social exchanges, through a process we term 

Research concerning concepts in the cognitive sciences has been dominated by the information-processing approach, which has resulted in a certain narrowing of the range of questions and methods of investigation. Recent trends have sought to broaden the scope of such research, but they have not yet been integrated within a theoretical framework that would allow us to reconcile new perspectives with the insights already obtained. In this paper, we focus on the processes involved in early concept acquisition and demonstrate that certain aspects of these processes remain largely understudied. These aspects include the primacy of movement and coordination with others within a structured social environment as well as the importance of first-person experiences pertaining to perception and action. We argue that alternative approaches to cognition, such as ecological psychology, enactivism and interactivism, are helpful for foregrounding these understudied areas. These approaches can complement the extant research concerning concepts to help us obtain a more comprehensive view of knowledge structures, thus providing us with a new perspective on recurring problems, suggesting novel questions and enriching our methodological toolbox. This article is part of the theme issue 'Concepts in interaction: social engagement and inner experiences'.

The usual puzzle raised about olfaction is that of a deficit of abstraction: smells, by contrast notably with colours, do not easily lend themselves to abstract categories and labels. Some studies have argued that the puzzle is culturally restricted and that abstraction is more common outside urban Western societies. Here, I argue that the puzzle is misconstrued and should be reversed: given that odours are constantly changing and that their commonalities are difficult for humans to identify, what is surprising is not that abstract terms are rare, but that they should be used at all for olfaction. Given the nature of the olfactory environment and our cognitive equipment, concrete labels referring to sources seem most adaptive. To explain the use and presence of abstract terms, we need to examine their social and communicative benefits. Here these benefits are spelt out as securing a higher agreement among individuals varying in their olfactory experiences as well as the labels they use, as well as feeling a heightened sense of confidence in one's naming capacities. This article is part of the theme issue 'Concepts in interaction: social engagement and inner experiences'.

How are abstract concepts such as 'freedom' and 'democracy' represented in the mind? One prominent proposal suggests that abstract concepts are grounded in emotion. Supporting this 'affective embodiment' account, abstract concepts are rated to be more strongly positive or more strongly negative than concrete concepts. This paper demonstrates that this finding generalizes across languages by synthesizing rating data from Cantonese, Mandarin Chinese, Croatian, Dutch, French, German, Indonesian, Italian, Polish and Spanish. However, a deeper look at the same data suggests that the idea of emotional grounding only characterizes a small subset of abstract concepts. Moreover, when the concreteness/abstractness dimension is not operationalized using concreteness ratings, it is actually found that concrete concepts are rated as more emotional than abstract ones. Altogether, these results suggest limitations to the idea that emotion is an important factor in the grounding of abstract concepts. This article is part of the theme issue 'Concepts in interaction: social engagement and inner experiences'.

To conduct a scoping review of the literature on psychological interventions directed to identify primary prevention strategies for depression among adult head and neck cancer (HNC) patients. Systematic searches were conducted following Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Extension for Scoping Review including relevant studies within the PubMed, PsycINFO, and EMBASE databases. Two authors independently screened the searches and reviewed the included articles according to the predetermined eligibility criteria based on the PICOS format. Studies included subjects with previous or current diagnosis of depression were excluded. The risk of bias assessment of these trials was conducted following the Cochrane tool for assessing the risk of bias in randomized trials. The search was repeated prior to submission to ensure all current articles meeting criteria were included. The search yielded 875 studies. The title and abstract screen, followed by the review of full texts identified five articles that met inclusion criteria. Four were randomized controlled trials (RCT) and the fifth was a non-randomized but controlled study. Different psychosocial interventions were used, including psycho-educational interventions, psychosocial counseling, and pharmacotherapy. All studies established the diagnosis of depression or screened for the diagnosis using standardized psychiatric assessment tools, either Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders criteria or validated patient reported outcome measures. The average follow-up periods after intervention was 9.8 months. There was a significant decrease in the incidence of depression or depressive symptoms favoring the intervention group in three out of the five studies that were included. Psychological interventions identified thus far studying primary prevention of depression in HNC patients show promising results. However, the paucity of data and heterogeneity of the interventions challenges the ability to compare the prevention modalities and outcomes. Future well-designed RCTs with large sample sizes are recommended to better conclude a result of effectiveness.

Studies conducted in rodents indicate a crucial role of the opioid circuit in mediating objective hedonic reactions to primary rewards. However, it remains unclear whether opioid transmission is also essential to experience pleasure with more abstract rewards, such as music. We addressed this question using a double-blind within-subject pharmacological design in which opioid levels were up- and downregulated by administering an opioid agonist (oxycodone) and antagonist (naltrexone), respectively, before healthy participants (n = 21) listened to music. Participants also performed a monetary incentive delay (MID) task to control for the effectiveness of the treatment and the specificity of the effects. Our results revealed that the pharmacological intervention did not modulate subjective reports of pleasure, nor the occurrence of chills. On the contrary, psychophysiological (objective) measures of emotional arousal, such as skin conductance responses (SCRs), were bidirectionally modulated in both the music and MID tasks. This modulation specifically occurred during reward consumption, with greater pleasure-related SCR following oxycodone than naltrexone. These findings indicate that opioid transmission does not modulate subjective evaluations but rather affects objective reward-related psychophysiological responses. These findings raise new caveats about the role of the opioidergic system in the modulation of pleasure for more abstract or cognitive forms of rewarding experiences, such as music.

Scientific concepts typically transcendent our sensory experiences. Traditional approaches to science education therefore assume a shift towards amodal or verbal knowledge representations during academic training. Grounded cognition approaches, in contrast, predict a maintenance of grounding of the concepts in experiential brain networks or even an increase. To test these competing approaches, the present study investigated the semantic content of scientific psychological concepts and identified the corresponding neural circuits using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in undergraduate psychology students (beginners) and in graduated psychologists (advanced learners). During fMRI scanning, participants were presented with words denoting scientific psychological concepts within a lexical decision task (e.g. "conditioning", "habituation"). The individual semantic property content of each concept was related to brain activity during abstract concept processing. In both beginners and advanced learners, visual and motor properties activated brain regions also involved in perception and action, while mental state properties increased activity in brain regions also recruited by emotional-social scene observation. Only in advanced learners, social constellation properties elicited brain activity overlapping with emotional-social scene observation. In line with grounded cognition approaches, the present results highlight the importance of experiential information for constituting the meaning of abstract scientific concepts during the course of academic training.

Drawing from dual-strategies theory, leader-member exchange theory, and several theories of self-esteem, we develop and test hypotheses about how followers' self-esteem predicts their perceptions of dominant and prestigious leaders' leadership ability. Across four studies (N = 1568), we tested the association between self-esteem and perceptions of leadership ability for dominant and prestigious leaders. Individuals with high self-esteem perceived greater leadership ability in prestigious leaders than did those with low self-esteem and individuals with low self-esteem perceived greater leadership ability in dominant leaders than did those with high self-esteem. These results emerged across ratings of leaders from hypothetical vignettes (Studies 1 and 4), abstract beliefs about what constitutes good leadership (Study 1), past personal experiences with leaders (Study 2) and clips of leaders from reality television (Study 3). In Study 4, we also tested potential mechanisms. Compared with followers with low self-esteem, followers with high self-esteem found prestigious leaders more trustworthy, and they anticipated feeling inauthentic around a dominant leader. Self-esteem is reliably and robustly related to perceived leadership ability of dominant and prestigious leaders, and these differences might stem from differences in trust in prestigious leaders and anticipated authenticity around dominant leaders.

In the present review, we propose a theory that seeks to recontextualize various existing theories as functions of people's perceptions of their consistency with those around them. This theory posits that people seek social consistency for both epistemic and relational needs and that social inconsistency is both negative and aversive, similar to the experience of cognitive dissonance. We further posit that the aversive nature of perceiving social inconsistency leads people to engage in various behaviors to mitigate or avoid these inconsistencies. When these behaviors fail, however, people experience chronic social inconsistency, which, much like chronic rejection, is associated with physical and mental health and well-being outcomes. Finally, we describe how mitigation and avoidance of social inconsistency underlie many seemingly unrelated theories, and we provide directions for how future research may expand on this theory. In the present review, we propose that people find inconsistency with those around them to be an unpleasant experience, as it threatens people's core need to belong. Because the threat of reduced belongingness evokes negative feelings, people are motivated to avoid inconsistency with others and to mitigate the negative feelings that are produced when it inevitably does arise. We outline several types of behaviors that can be implemented to avoid or mitigate these inconsistencies (e.g., validation, affirmation, distancing, etc.). When these behaviors cannot be implemented successfully, people experience chronic invalidation, which is associated with reduced physical and mental health and well-being outcomes. We discuss how invalidation may disproportionately affect individuals with minoritized identities. Furthermore, we discuss how belongingness could play a key role in radicalization into extremist groups.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: In the context of health and social care, situations at the limit or beyond the role of the professional, such as falling in love and physical attraction between a client and a nurse, are very common events. In residential contexts, the construction of the professional relationship is made more complex than in other care contexts since sharing daily life, routine, constant contact and isolation contribute to making relationships more intense from an emotional point of view. Moreover, the same elements that promote the therapeutic process (interpersonal closeness, self-disclosure, trust) are also sources of role ambivalence and possible emotional misunderstandings. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: In contrast to what is usually proposed in the literature for the management of similar situations, such as supervision by experts external to the team, this paper proposes a strategy of supervision between peers (called in literature "intervision") and of taking charge of the situation by the entire team and the group of service users. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING?: The story here presented offers a key example that may be of interest not only to residential centres for substance users but also to all residential mental health communities. It shows not only that one can fall in love, but that this event can generate new opportunities for the therapeutic pathway. The risks associated with not addressing these situations are discussed. These include the restriction of the feeling of falling in love within the canons of error; the attribution of what happened to personal characteristics and the assumption of guilt for such occurrences. INTRODUCTION: The care pathway within a mental health service can create situations of strong emotional impact, including physical attraction and falling in love. This may evolve in moments of impasse for the staff and sometimes compromise the success of therapeutic treatment. This article offers some evidence about how intervene in a situation such as a client falling in love with a nurse, avoiding transforming it into a problem. The fear of the nurse, maybe already inclined to blame themselves for what has happened, when he/she asks for supervision, is to feel judged also by the supervisor. This story teaches that to refer to figures from outside the team, as would usually be the case with supervision, may be replaced by enhancing the role composition already available in the residential community as a resource. The story was listened and enhanced thankyou to an exchange between M. and the community manager. From the analysis of the narratives co-produced by M., the former substance user, and the community manager, the elements that made it possible to transform a feeling of falling in love into an interaction of extended trust emerged. The non-judgmental and confidential context, but above all the training in interpersonal exchange, facilitated the client sharing very intimate and private experiences, which are usually hidden or denied. This made it possible to make the community responsible for the individual's experiences and to overcome the role impasse and the related identity dilemma. Neither nurses nor clients should be held accountable or blamed when these episodes occur. The strongest resource is sharing in the group and putting one's own experiences into play. Following the M. story, a targeted confrontation between team members and clients is an accessible and effective resource to respond to situations of strong emotional impact, falling in love being just one example; however, it can be effectively activated only through a collective taking charge of the individual's difficulties has already been implemented.

The first-person experiences of people diagnosed with borderline personality disorder (BPD) is an important area of research. It can support clinical and ethical practice, and nuance and expand on insights offered by diagnostic and treatment-oriented research approaches. In this study, we aimed to develop knowledge about how persons who were recently diagnosed with BPD experience being in relationships with themselves and others. We conducted in-depth life-world interviews with 12 women recently diagnosed with BPD. The interviews focused on their lived experiences of relationships to self and others. All participants gave their informed consents to participate. We analysed the data with a structured approach to reflexive thematic analysis, conducted as a team-based approach. We extracted an overarching theme, "Reaching for firm holdings", that is the most abstract interpretation of participants' experiences. The five subordinate themes ("Captive of emotions", "Keeping undeservedness at bay", "Distrusting oneself", "Dependence as stability" and "The uncertainty of reaching out") are specific constituents of the overarching theme, and provide detail and variations across individual accounts. The results suggest that the experience of relationship to self and others of people recently diagnosed with BPD entails feeling insecure, unsafe and frightened. We report five themes that describe ways participants seek to cope with this situation. The results indicate that their experiences encompass turning to others, or to objects, for feelings of safety. As such, the experience of relationship to self and others in the context of receiving a BPD diagnosis seemed to entail finding and evolving strategies to protect a vulnerable self. Self-harm, suicide attempts and addiction all seemed to be ways of handling and tolerating chaotic and frightful emotions. One major limitation of our study is that only people who identified as female were recruited to participate in the study.

We conducted a scoping review to evaluate the degree to which literature published within the past 5 years concerning mental health among Black emerging adult men in the USA engaged with intersectionality. Using scoping review methods, we applied the following a-priori eligibility criteria: (i) sample included Black/African American men who were aged 18-29 years, (ii) pertained to general mental wellness, depression, or anxiety, (iii) published within between 2017 and 2022, (iv) empirical and/or theoretical literature including reviews, pre-prints, and reports from organizations or professional groups, (v) conducted in the USA. In total, 1384 studies were identified from the databases, after which 224 duplicates were removed, resulting in 1160 unique citations that were screened in the title/abstract phase. Overall, 376 sources were assessed for full-text eligibility, and 20 studies were included for extraction. Information pertaining to sample characteristics, intersectionality, and main mental health results were extracted from the included studies. Findings from this review indicate that there is a paucity of research that has investigated the mental health of Black American, emerging adult men. Of the studies that have been conducted in recent years, there are few that have used an intersectional framework to examine how different social identities intersect to affect mental health. This review underscores that the mental health of emerging adult Black men is of considerable concern given the developmental stage, social and historical context as well as intersecting identities that men in this stage embody.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Researchers have examined several interventions for psychological distress, mindfulness being a popular one. One intervention that fosters mindfulness is mantram repetition. Mantram repetition is an ancient traditional practice of repeating a sacred word/phrase at various times throughout the day and whenever needed. Psychologically, mantram repetition can mitigate immediate stressors. When used consistently, mantram repetition promotes resilience and deepens mindfulness, thereby promoting recovery from distress. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper examines the overall effect of mantram repetition on psychological distress symptoms (i.e., depression, anxiety and somatization). WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The portable, cost-effective, mantram repetition intervention outperformed standard therapies. In people who are prone to psychological distress, practitioners might teach this technique, encouraging them to use it initially as they go through their day and then when they are experiencing distress. Mantram repetition can quiet the mind and pairs well with breathing exercises and routine activities such as walking or exercising, or during chores, thus, integrating the mantram into daily life. INTRODUCTION: Researchers have examined several interventions for psychological distress, mindfulness being a popular one. One mindfulness intervention is mantram repetition. Mantram repetition is an ancient traditional practice of repeating a sacred word/phrase at various times throughout the day and whenever needed. To examine the evidence of the effect of mantram repetition on psychological distress (i.e., depression, anxiety and somatization). We searched 16 databases and retrieved 12 studies testing the effects of mantram repetition; only four of these measured aspects of psychological distress with comparison groups. All studies showed positive effects ranging from very mild (.08) to very strong (.71). The summary effect across all studies was small (.23, p = .015). Importantly, this small effect was found when compared to treatment as usual and even psychotherapy. The portable, cost-effective, mantram repetition intervention outperformed standard therapies. In patients who are prone to psychological distress, practitioners might teach this technique, encouraging them to use it initially as they go through their day and then when they are experiencing distress. Mantram repetition could be practiced with breathing exercises, when walking or exercising, or during chores, integrating the mantram into daily life.

An urban-rural comparison of family stress and early childhood intervention: Data linkage between two cross-sectional studies 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Recurrence is common in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD). Psychological resilience has been shown to be a protective factor against recurrence of depression. It has important clinical nursing significance to analyse the influencing factors of psychological resilience in major depressive disorder in remission (MDDR) patients. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: There are few previous studies on the influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR. We found the education levels, personal monthly income, social support, well-being and self-efficacy were influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: According to the factors affecting the psychological resilience of patients diagnosed with MDDR, targeted clinical nursing is helpful to prevent the recurrence of depression. Nurses should strengthen the nursing of patients with <12 years of education, and patients with personal monthly income less than 5000 RMB. In addition, nurses should cultivate patients' awareness of social support and identity, cultivate their ability to strive for social support, cultivate interpersonal skills and positive emotional experience to improve subjective well-being and carry out self-efficacy training to improve psychological resilience by enhancing patients' internal protective factors. AIM: Psychological resilience is closely related to recurrence of depression. There are few previous studies on the influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder in remission (MDDR). Here, we investigated the current status of resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR and its influencing factors. A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted from June 2019 to April 2021. One hundred and forty-two patients diagnosed with MDDR were recruited from the Department of Psychiatry and Psychology of the General Hospital of Northern Theater Command. Demographic information, social support, well-being, self-efficacy and psychological resilience were collected using self-reported questionnaires. The psychological resilience of MDDR patients was lower than that of the healthy Chinese adults in China. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that education, personal monthly income, social support, well-being and self-efficacy were associated with psychological resilience. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis further confirmed that social support, well-being and self-efficacy were associated with psychological resilience. The psychological resilience of MDDR patients was lower than that of the general population in China. The education levels, personal monthly income, social support, well-being and self-efficacy were influencing factors of psychological resilience. According to the factors affecting the psychological resilience of patients diagnosed with MDDR, targeted clinical nursing is helpful to prevent the recurrence of depression.

Mild cognitive impairment refers to the transitional stage between normal aging and dementia. While managing the cognitive symptoms receives most research attention, neuropsychiatric symptoms, particularly depression and anxiety, affect up to 80% of this cohort and detrimentally impact disease progression. Evidence-based interventions to support this preclinical cohort to cope with the neuropsychiatric symptoms are yet to be developed. To test the effects of an empowerment-based educative psycho-behavioral program on neuropsychiatric symptoms, cognitive function, and health-related quality of life among older adults with mild cognitive impairment and explore the engagement experience and perceived effects of the program. An explanatory sequential mixed methods design comprises a single-blinded randomized controlled trial and a descriptive qualitative study. This study was conducted in five social facilities in three major geographic districts in Hong Kong from August 2020 to November 2021. Community-dwelling adults aged ≥50 with mild cognitive impairment were included. A total of 171 participants were randomly assigned to either a 13-week empowerment-based educative psycho-behavioral program on stress adaptation, cognitive coping and knowledge enhancement (intervention group; n = 86), or a generic health education program (control group; n = 85). Mild Behavioral Impairment Checklist, Geriatric Depression Scale Short Form, Apathy Evaluation Scale, Kessler Psychological Distress Scale, Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Memory Inventory for Chinese, and Short Form Health Survey were administered at baseline, immediately after the program completion, and four weeks thereafter. Individual, semi-structured interviews were conducted to explore the engagement experience and perceived effects of the program. The mean age of the participants was 69.1 years (SD = 8.1), and 87.7% were female. Using generalized estimating equation, the intervention group had significantly greater improvement in overall neuropsychiatric symptoms (β = -1.49, p = 0.044), apathy (β = 2.14, p = 0.018), anxiety (β = -0.53, p = 0.009), and subjective memory complaints (β = -1.97, p = 0.003) than the control group upon completion of the intervention, such positive effects lasted to four weeks thereafter. Delayed effects were also shown on depression (β = 0.86, p = 0.008) and global cognitive function (β = 0.86, p = 0.008). The qualitative data converges with the quantitative evaluation; the participants indicated that the increased coping for daily hassles and emotional arousal, together with a more positive orientation towards living a fulfilling life and the future, may explain such encouraging effects. This study revealed the beneficial effects of the empowerment-based educative psycho-behavioral program on improving neuropsychiatric symptoms and cognitive function of older adults with mild cognitive impairment. The findings support the application of a comprehensive empowerment approach to enhance psychological well-being of this cohort. HKUCTR-2915 (HKU Clinical Trial Registry). Neuropsychiatric symptoms received less attention in the management of mild cognitive impairment. An empowerment-based educative psycho-behavioral program shows benefits on these prevalent manifestations.

Suicide loss survivors often find it challenging to access professional help due to social stigma despite being at a higher risk of developing suicidal behaviour and mental health problems. Most available grief interventions are professional-led and heavily rely on help-seeking behaviour. Self-healing is a growing alternative intervention that is still relatively under-researched for suicide-bereaved individuals. This scoping review aims to determine the extent to which self-healing research has been undertaken, how well all subpopulations and geographical areas are represented, the methodologies used and outcomes associated with self-healing practices in suicide-related grief. The research gap in this area will be highlighted to inform future study direction. The proposed review will be guided by the methodological framework proposed by Arksey and O'Malley in 2015. Articles will be retrieved from CINAHL, Embase, MEDLINE, PsycINFO and Web of Science. Peer-reviewed publications that provide data on self-healing practices within the context of suicide loss survivors will be included. The research team will screen the retrieved articles through a two-step screening process: (1) Title and abstract screening and (2) full-text screening. The reporting of the scoping review will be done following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for scoping reviews guideline. This study does not require ethical approval because it will synthesise information from available publications. Results of this scoping review will be submitted for publication to a peer-reviewed journal and potentially be presented at relevant conferences.

To investigate whether activity pacing interventions (alone or in conjunction with other evidence-based interventions) improve fatigue, physical function, psychological distress, depression, and anxiety in people with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Seven databases were searched until 13 August 2022 for randomised controlled trials that included activity pacing interventions for CFS and a validated measure of fatigue. Secondary outcomes were physical function, psychological distress, depression, and anxiety. Two reviewers independently screened studies by title, abstract and full text. Methodological quality was evaluated using the PEDro scale. Random-effects meta-analyses were performed in R. 6390 articles were screened, with 14 included. Good overall study quality was supported by PEDro scale ratings. Activity pacing interventions were effective (Hedges'  Activity pacing interventions are effective in reducing fatigue and psychological distress and improving physical function in CFS, particularly when people are encouraged to gradually increase activities. PROSPERO CRD42016036087. IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATIONA key feature of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a prolonged post-exertional exacerbation of symptoms following physical activities or cognitive activities.Activity pacing is a common strategy often embedded in multi-component management programs for CFS.Activity pacing interventions are effective in reducing fatigue and psychological distress and improving physical function in CFS, particularly when patients are encouraged to gradually increase their activities.Healthcare professionals embedding activity pacing as part of treatment should work collaboratively with patients to ensure successful, individualised self-management strategies.

Though it is presumed that children and adolescents with migraine are at risk of internalizing symptoms and disorders, high-level summative evidence to support this clinical belief is lacking. To determine if there is an association between internalizing symptoms and disorders and migraine in children and adolescents. A librarian-led, peer-reviewed search was performed using MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, and CINAHL databases (inception to March 28, 2022). Case-control, cohort, and cross-sectional studies on the association between internalizing symptoms and disorders and migraine in children and adolescents 18 years or younger were eligible. Two investigators independently completed abstract and full-text screening, data extraction, and quality appraisal using the Newcastle-Ottawa scales. Studies were pooled with random-effects meta-analyses using standardized mean differences (SMD) or odds ratios (OR) with 95% CIs. Where sufficient data for pooling were unavailable, studies were described qualitatively. The primary outcome was migraine diagnosis; additional outcomes included migraine outcomes and incidence. Associations between these outcomes and internalizing symptoms and disorders were evaluated. The study team screened 4946 studies and included 80 studies in the systematic review. Seventy-four studies reported on the association between internalizing symptoms and disorders and migraine, and 51 studies were amenable to pooling. Meta-analyses comparing children and adolescents with migraine with healthy controls showed: (1) an association between migraine and anxiety symptoms (SMD, 1.13; 95% CI, 0.64-1.63); (2) an association between migraine and depressive symptoms (SMD, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.46-0.87); and (3) significantly higher odds of anxiety disorders (OR, 1.93, 95% CI, 1.49-2.50) and depressive disorders (OR, 2.01, 95% CI, 1.46-2.78) in those with, vs without, migraine. Stratification of results did not reveal differences between clinical vs community/population-based samples and there was no evidence of publication bias. Twenty studies assessing the association between internalizing symptoms or disorders and migraine outcomes (n = 18) or incident migraine (n = 2) were summarized descriptively given significant heterogeneity, with minimal conclusions drawn. In this study, children and adolescents with migraine were at higher risk of anxiety and depression symptoms and disorders compared with healthy controls. It may be beneficial to routinely screen children and adolescents with migraine for anxiety and depression in clinical practice. It is unclear whether having anxiety and depressive symptoms or disorders has an affect on migraine outcomes or incidence.

The idea of "purity" transformed moral psychology. Here, we provide the first systematic review of this concept. Although often discussed as one construct, we reveal ~9 understandings of purity, ranging from respecting God to not eating gross things. This striking heterogeneity arises because purity-unlike other moral constructs-is not understood by what it  People are fascinated by morality-how do people make moral judgments and why do liberals and conservatives seem to frequently disagree? "Purity" is one moral concept often discussed when talking about morality-it has been suggested to capture moral differences across politics and to demonstrate the evolutionary roots of morality, especially the role of disgust in moral judgment. However, despite the many books and articles that mention purity, there is no systematic analysis of purity. Here, we review all existing academic articles focused on purity in morality. We find that purity is an especially messy concept that lacks scientific validity. Because it is so poorly defined and inconsistently measured, it should not be invoked to explain our moral minds or political differences.

The study aims to provide an updated overview of studies that show the impact of psychotherapeutic interventions on fear of cancer recurrence (FCR), to explore the relationship between FCR and related factors (psychological distress, well-being, anxiety, depression, fear, coping strategies, quality of life), and to identify the most effective therapeutic approaches in managing FCR. Three databases were searched between January 2021 and April 2021 using the key words "fear of cancer recurrence - psychotherapy - intervention" following the a priori established PRISMA protocol. Thirteen studies were included in the final review. The database search identified 239 potential papers. After removing duplicates and irrelevant articles by title and language, population, and type of study, 13 articles were assessed for eligibility of the abstract, and 13 full-text articles were reviewed and included in this systematic review. The studies were mainly from the Netherlands (4 out of 13). Positive benefits of therapeutic interventions on FCR were reported. This research highlights challenges in using therapeutic approaches in dealing with FCR and its management. Therapeutic intervention is an effective means of managing not only FCR but also related factors (distress, well-being, quality of life). However, individual needs and preferences must be taken into consideration whilst choosing a therapeutic approach. Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), and mindfulness-based interventions are the most used approaches with CBT being the most effective, especially in a blended form (i.e. standard CBT combined with other self-help activities). The aim was to provide information about the most effective therapeutic approaches for coping with FCR.

Being moved has received increased attention in emotion psychology as a social emotion that fosters bonds between individuals and within communities. This increased attention, however, has also sparked debates about whether the term "being moved" refers to a single distinct profile of emotion components or rather to a range of different emotion profiles. We addressed this question by investigating lay conceptions of the emotion components (i.e., elicitors, cognitive appraisals, subjective feelings, bodily symptoms, and consequences for thought/action) of "bewegt sein" (the German term for "being moved"). Participants (N = 106) provided written descriptions of both a moving personal experience and their conceptual prototype of "being moved," which were subjected to content analysis to obtain quantitative data for statistical analyses. Based on latent class analyses, we identified two classes for both the personal experiences (joyfully-moved and sadly-moved classes) and the being-moved prototype (basic-description and extended-description classes). Being joyfully moved occurred when social values and positive relationship experiences were salient. Being sadly moved was elicited by predominantly negative relationship experiences and negatively salient social values. For both classes, the most frequently reported consequences for thought/action were continued cognitive engagement, finding meaning, and increased valuation of and striving for connectedness/prosociality. Basic descriptions of the prototype included "being moved" by positive or negative events as instances of the same emotion, with participants in the extended-description class also reporting joy and sadness as associated emotions. Based on our findings and additional theoretical considerations, we propose that the term "being moved" designates an emotion with an overall positive valence that typically includes blends of positively and negatively valenced emotion components, in which especially the weight of the negative components varies. The emotion's unifying core is that it involves feeling the importance of individuals, social entities, and abstract social values as sources of meaning in one's life.

Breast cancer is the most common form of cancerous disease worldwide. Its treatment leads to a variety of physiological and psychological side effects. This review investigates the question of how mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR), a stress management program, can influence the quality of life, anxiety, and depression of women diagnosed with breast cancer. A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed/MEDLINE and Cochrane Library. Screening by title, abstract and full text was performed, whereby only those articles were included that fit the inclusion criteria. A risk of bias assessment was performed for each included study. Overall, six studies were included, but not every study investigated all three outcomes. Two studies found positive impacts on quality of life, whereas three did not find a positive correlation between the intervention and quality of life. Four out of six studies found a positive relation between MBSR and anxiety scores, but only half of the included studies found positive results for the interaction between MBSR and depression scores. Published data suggest that anxiety can be positively influenced by MBSR, which can be used to improve the psychological care of breast cancer patients, both during and after treatment. However, further studies with larger patient numbers and longer observation periods should be conducted in order to elucidate the full potential of MSBR on important areas such as depression and quality of life.

The study aimed to conceptually define "shame" within the field of nursing. Many nurses sometimes experience and struggle with shame in their professional lives. It reduces their sense of self-worth and hampers emotional well-being and efficacy at work. The conceptual analysis was performed using Walker and Avant's method. We searched using Academic Search Complete, CINAHL, PsycINFO, MEDLINE, and Psychology and Behavioral Sciences Collection databases for literature published between 1980 and 2020. We searched for keywords "shame," "nurse," and "nursing," with the condition that the keywords must be included in the title or abstract. Shame in the nursing field was defined as a negative emotion, an experience of self-blame and anger, an emotion accompanied by social anxiety, loneliness, and influenced by society and culture. Shame in the nursing field has three antecedents: negative evaluation, the involvement of others, and social and affiliated-group norms. Consequences of shame in nursing include decreased senses of self-esteem and self-efficacy, escape through defense mechanisms, depressive states, and alleviation of distress through reaffirmation of self-promotion and reflection leading to personal growth. We clarified the significance of self, others, others' evaluations, and differences in socio-cultural contexts while defining shame.

Concepts allow us to make sense of the world. Most evidence on their acquisition and representation comes from studies of single decontextualized words and focuses on the opposition between concrete and abstract concepts (e.g., "bottle" vs. "truth"). A significant step forward in research on concepts consists in investigating them in online interaction during their use. Our study examines linguistic exchanges analyzing the differences between sub-kinds of concepts. Participants were submitted to an online task in which they had to simulate a conversational exchange by responding to sentences involving sub-kinds of concrete (tools, animals, food) and abstract concepts (PS, philosophical-spiritual; EMSS, emotional-social, PSTQ, physical-spatio-temporal-quantitative). We found differences in content: foods evoked interoception; tools and animals elicited materials, spatial, auditive features, confirming their sensorimotor grounding. PS and EMSS yielded inner experiences (e.g., emotions, cognitive states, introspections) and opposed PSTQ, tied to visual properties and concrete agency. More crucially, the various concepts elicited different interactional dynamics: more abstract concepts generated higher uncertainty and more interactive exchanges than concrete ones. Investigating concepts in situated interactions opens new possibilities for studying conceptual knowledge and its pragmatic and social aspects.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) or Depression is one of the serious neuropsychiatric disorders affecting over 280 million people worldwide. It is 4th important cause of disability, poor quality of life, and economic burden. Women are more affected with the depression as compared to men and severe depression can lead to suicide. Most of the antidepressants predominantly work through the modulation on the availability of monoaminergic neurotransmitter (NTs) levels in the synapse. Current antidepressants have limited efficacy and tolerability. Moreover, treatment resistant depression (TRD) is one of the main causes for failure of standard marketed antidepressants. Recently, inflammation has also emerged as a crucial factor in pathological progression of depression. Proinflammatory cytokine levels are increased in depressive patients. Antidepressant treatment may attenuate depression via modulation of pathways of inflammation, transformation in structure of brain, and synaptic plasticity. Hence, targeting inflammation may be emerged as an effective approach for the treatment of depression. The present review article will focus on the preclinical and clinical studies that targets inflammation. In addition, it also concentrates on the therapeutic approaches' that targets depression via influence on the inflammatory signaling pathways. Graphical abstract demonstrate the role of various factors in the progression and neuroinflammation, oxidative stress. It also exhibits the association of neuroinflammation, oxidative stress with depression.

Paediatric anxiety disorders (AD) are prevalent and persistent mental health conditions worldwide affecting between 10% and 20% of children and adolescents. Despite the high prevalence of paediatric AD, there is limited understanding of which treatments work best. Outcome heterogeneity across paediatric mental health trials has been a significant factor in hindering the ability to compare results and assess the efficacy of such trials. This scoping review will help to identify and synthesise the outcomes reported in paediatric AD trials to date. Following the Joanna Briggs Institute scoping review methodology, a comprehensive electronic bibliographic database search (MEDLINE, APA PsycINFO, Embase, CINAHL) strategy will be applied to identify articles examining interventions for children diagnosed with an AD. Articles will be eligible for inclusion if they assess at least one AD intervention (eg, psychological), in children 4-18 years of age inclusive. Initial title and abstract screening will be completed by two trained reviewers independently and in duplicate. Full-text screening of each included article will be completed independently and in duplicate by two of three trained reviewers. Identified outcomes will be mapped to a standard outcome taxonomy developed for core outcome sets. Trial and outcome characteristics will be synthesised using quantitative metrics (counts and frequencies). As this is a scoping review of the literature and patient information or records were not accessed, institutional ethics approval was not required. Results of this scoping review will be disseminated to clinicians, researchers inclusive of trialists and other stakeholders invested in outcome selection, measurement and reporting in paediatric AD trials. In addition, scoping review results will inform the development of a Core Outcome Set for paediatric AD trials-a minimum set of outcomes that should be measured across trials in an area of health, without precluding the inclusion of other outcomes.

This study aims to systematically review the literature on health utility in depression generated by time trade-off (TTO) method and to compare health state vignettes. Systematic literature search was conducted following PRISMA guideline in 2020 November (updated in 2022 March) in Pubmed, Web of Science, PsycInfo, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Random effect meta-analysis was conducted to pool vignette-based utility values of mild, moderate, and severe depression and to compare the preferences of depressed and nondepressed population. Overall, 264 records were found, 143 screened by title and abstract after removing duplicates, 18 assessed full text, and 14 original publications included. Majority of the studies (n = 9) used conventional TTO method, and most of the studies (n = 8) applied 10-year timeframe. Eight studies evaluated self-experienced health (own-current depression). Six studies assessed vignette-based health states of remitted, mild, moderate, and severe depression, half of them applied McSad measure based health description. Altogether, 61 different utility values have been cataloged, mean utility of self-experienced depression states (n = 33) ranged between 0.89 (current-own depression) and 0.24 (worst experienced depression). Pooled utility estimates for vignette-based mild, moderate, and severe depression was 0.75, 0.66 and 0.50, respectively. Meta-regression showed that severe depression (β = -0.16) and depressed sample populations (β =  -0.13) significantly decrease vignette-based utility scores. Our review revealed extent heterogeneity both in TTO methodology and health state vignette development. Patient's perception of depression health states was worse than healthy respondents.

Although the lack of estrogen receptor β (ERβ) is a risk factor for the development of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and psychiatric disorders, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. Herein, we revealed the role of gut microbiota in the development of IBD and related anxiety-like behavior in ERβ-deficient mice. In response to dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) insult, the ERβ knockout mice displayed significant shift in α and β diversity in the fecal microbiota composition and demonstrated worsening of colitis and anxiety-like behaviors. In addition, DSS-induced colitis also induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity in ERβ-deficient mice, which was associated with colitis and anxiety-like behaviors. In addition, RNA sequencing data suggested that ErbB4 might be the target of ERβ that is involved in regulating the HPA axis hyperactivity caused by DSS insult. Gut microbiota remodeling by co-housing showed that both the colitis and anxiety-like behaviors were aggravated in co-housed wild-type mice compared to single-housed wild-type mice. These findings suggest that gut microbiota play a critical role in mediating colitis disease activity and anxiety-like behaviors via aberrant neural processing within the gut-brain axis. ERβ has the potential to inhibit colitis development and anxiety-like behaviors via remodeling of the gut microbiota, which suggests that ERβ is a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of IBD and related anxiety-like behaviors. Video Abstract.

Although anxiety is highly prevalent in people with bipolar disorders and has deleterious impact on the course of the illness, past reviews have shown that many aspects of the topic remain under-researched. This scoping review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the literature addressing anxiety in bipolar disorder (A-BD) between 2011 and 2020, assess if the interest in the topic has increased over the period and map the publication trends. Three databases were systematically searched, and all articles were screened at the title/abstract and full text level based on inclusion and exclusion criteria. Of these, 1099 articles were included in the study. The annual number of articles on A-BD published between 2011 and 2020 was calculated and articles addressing it as a primary topic (n = 310) were classified into 4 categories and 11 subcategories to identify gaps in the knowledge. The results show no clear increase in the number of annual publications during the period and much of the available literature is of a descriptive nature. Less is known about the processes underlying the comorbidity and about treatment approaches. Given the large scope of the research question, no quality assessment of the evidence was made. Only articles in English or French were considered. These results highlight the need to change the focus of research efforts to better understand and address this unique set of conditions in clinical settings.

Map the landscape of friendship interventions/programs for older adults to guide intervention/program development inclusive of the unique needs of older people with aphasia (PWA). A search query of multiple databases was completed for articles published before 4 January 2021. Studies included all the following: (1) participants aged 55 years or older; (2) addressed an intervention/program designed to prevent social isolation and/or friendship loss; (3) used an outcome variable related to social isolation and/or friendship; and (4) published in a peer-reviewed journal. Title and abstract screening were conducted using Covidence software, which tracked disagreements across the study team. All studies included in the full-text review were identified as relevant by a minimum of two study authors, and a consensus was reached on all full-text reviews. Data were extracted according to (1) theoretical frameworks used; (2) interventionist and discipline; (3) participant characteristics; (4) intervention/program replicability; (5) format of intervention/program; (6) measures used in the intervention/programs; (7) and, reported effects of intervention/programs on individuals. A total of 40 articles with 42 intervention/programs were included and represented 4584 intervention/program participants ranging in age from 40 to 104 years. Intervention/programs involved a wide range of theoretical frameworks (e.g., theories of loneliness, feminist theory, positive psychology). Disciplines such as psychology and exercise science informed intervention/programs. Interventionists included many types of individuals like therapists, volunteers and home health aides. Intervention/programs often lacked adequate description for replication and included individual and group formats, most commonly delievered in the participants homes. Outcomes usually included self-report measures of loneliness, social networks, or well-being, and intervention/programming was primarily educational, activity-based, or networking-based in nature. The intervention/programs reviewed yield important lessons to support innovation in developing friendship intervention/programs for older PWA as most yielded positive results and were acceptable to participants.IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATIONPeople with aphasia want their friendships addressed as part of their rehabilitation; however, the research literature has little guidance in this area.Studies reviewed of friendship intervention/programs for older adults yielded helpful lessons for consideration in developing this type of intervention/programming for people with aphasia.Interprofessional teams made up of rehabilitation professionals should address friendship for people with aphasia in both research and clinical practice.

We studied comprehension of emotion versus concrete/abstract words in Down syndrome (DS). Study 1 compared 26 participants with DS and 26 typically developing (TD) children matched on verbal ability. Results showed no difference between groups. Study 2 assessed whether chronological age (CA) and (non)verbal abilities predicted developmental trajectories of comprehension in 36 children with DS and 143 TD children. For the latter, these variables predicted comprehension of all three word types. For the former, receptive vocabulary predicted comprehension of all word types, but CA and nonverbal reasoning only predicted comprehension of concrete words. This suggests that people with DS have no specific emotional lexicon deficit. Supporting their general lexical development would help them access abstract and emotional meanings.

Approximately 20%-30% of infants cry excessively and exhibit sleep difficulties for no apparent reason, causing parental stress and even triggering impulsive child maltreatment in a small number of cases.

After completing this activity, practitioners will be better able to:• Discuss and better understand the recently adopted screening standards for adolescents with depression and the potential advantages of using "lifestyle medicine"• Set up a process for providing effective interventions for the increased number of patients with adolescent depression• Design or update their toolbox of treatment options for adolescents with depression based on the new literature and increased demand. Recently adopted quality standards recommend that pediatricians screen adolescents for depression and that they document follow-up plans for those who screen positive. As a result of these new recommendations, pediatricians and other pediatric providers, as well as psychiatrists and other mental health professionals, may face an increasing number of referrals and a growing need for effective interventions for adolescent depression. Given the widely acknowledged scarcity of traditional mental health resources, the current study reviewed the rapidly expanding array of evidence-based, but nontraditional, interventions applicable to outpatient pediatric and mental health care settings. Many of these interventions come from a lifestyle medicine framework. Lifestyle medicine interventions are congruent with the cultures of pediatrics and outpatient psychiatry, and offer additional evidence-based tools for providers managing adolescent depression. These interventions can be implemented individually or within group or community settings, and may be used in conjunction with more common interventions such as psychotherapy or psychotropic medications.

Patients undergoing colectomy may be at risk for postoperative regret, which is associated with worse quality of life, higher rates of depression, and poorer health outcomes. A better understanding of factors associated with decisional regret may allow surgeons to better tailor preoperative discussions to mitigate the risk of regret. This study aimed to identify factors associated with regret in patients undergoing elective and urgent/emergent colectomy. A retrospective cohort study. The Michigan Surgical Quality Collaborative, a 73-hospital collaborative, which collects clinical data on general surgery operations. Patients aged >18 years who underwent elective or urgent/emergent colectomy between January 2017 and March 2020 and who completed a decision regret survey. Any degree of postoperative regret. Of 3638 patients, 2,530 (70%) underwent elective and 1108 (30%) underwent urgent/emergent colectomy. Overall, 381 (10.5%) patients reported regret, with higher rates among the urgent/emergent setting compared with the elective cohort (13.0% vs 9.4%; p < 0.001). In the elective cohort, regret was associated with length of stay >7 days (OR, 2.32; 95% CI, 1.06-5.07), postoperative complication (OR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.36-2.79), and readmission (OR, 1.90; 95% CI, 1.22-2.95). Elective colectomies for cancer/adenoma/polyp were associated with lower odds of regret (OR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.50-0.91). In the urgent/emergent cohort, regret was associated with female sex (OR, 1.69; 95% CI, 1.15-2.50) and nonhome discharge destination (OR, 1.61; 95% CI, 0.04-1.03). Hospitals used different sampling strategies, limiting our ability to calculate a true response rate and characterize nonresponders. One in 10 patients reported regret after colectomy with higher rates in those undergoing urgent/emergent colectomy. Factors associated with regret were different between surgical settings. Efforts are needed to mitigate patients' risk of regret with individualized discussions contingent on surgical settings to better align expectations and outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/C3 . ANTECEDENTES:Los pacientes que se someten a una colectomía pueden estar en riesgo de arrepentimiento post operatorio, la cual está asociada con una peor calidad de vida, mayores tasas de depresión y peores resultados de salud. Una mejor comprensión de los factores asociados con el arrepentimiento de dicha decisión, puede permitir a los cirujanos adaptar de una mejor manera las discusiones preoperatorias y así mitigar el riesgo de arrepentimiento.OBJETIVO:Identificar factores asociados al arrepentimiento en pacientes sometidos a colectomía electiva y urgente/emergente.DISEÑO:Estudio de cohorte retrospectivo.ESCENARIO:The Michigan Surgical Quality Collaborative, una colaboración de 73 hospitales.PACIENTES:Pacientes ≥18 años sometidos a colectomía electiva o urgente/emergente entre enero de 2017 y marzo de 2020, y que hayan completado una encuesta de arrepentimiento en cuanto a la decisión.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:Reporte de cualquier grado de arrepentimiento postoperatorio.RESULTADOS:De 3.638 pacientes, 2.530 (70%) fueron sometidos a colectomía electiva y 1.108 (30%) a colectomía urgente/emergente. En general, 381 (10,5%) pacientes informaron arrepentimiento, con tasas más altas en el grupo relacionado con el escenario urgente/emergente en comparación con la cohorte electiva (13,0% frente a 9,4%, p < 0,001). En la cohorte electiva, el arrepentimiento se asoció con una estancia hospitalaria >7 días (OR 2,32, IC 95% 1,06-5,07), complicación posoperatoria (OR 1,95, IC 95% 1,36-2,79) y reingreso (OR 1,90, IC 95% 1,22-2,95). Las colectomías electivas por cáncer/adenoma/pólipo se asociaron con una menor probabilidad de arrepentimiento (OR 0,68, IC 95%: 0,50-0,91). En la cohorte urgente/emergente, el arrepentimiento se asoció con el sexo femenino (OR 1,69, IC 95% 1,15-2,50) y el destino del alta no domiciliario (OR 1,61, IC 95% 0,04-1,03).LIMITACIONES:Los hospitales utilizaron diferentes estrategias de muestreo, lo que limita nuestra capacidad para calcular una tasa de respuesta real y caracterizar a los que no respondieron.CONCLUSIONES:Uno de cada diez pacientes reportó arrepentimiento después de la colectomía con tasas más altas en aquellos sometidos a colectomía urgente/emergente. Los factores asociados con el arrepentimiento fueron diferentes entre los entornos quirúrgicos. Se necesitan esfuerzos para mitigar el riesgo de arrepentimiento de los pacientes con discusiones individualizadas supeditadas al entorno quirúrgico para caracterizar de una mejor las expectativas y los resultados. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/C3 . (Traducción-Dr. Osvaldo Gauto).

The aim: To study the structure of cognitive impairment in patients who were hospitalized with moderate to severe COVID-19 pneumonia. Investigate the correlation with demographic, biochemical parameters, as well as the emotional state of the patient. Materials and methods: Cognitive functions were assessed using the MOCA test. PHQ-9 depression and GAD-7 anxiety questionnaires were used to study psychopathological symptoms. Demographic, clinical and laboratory data were extracted from medical records. Results: Cognitive performance is impaired in 94% of patients with COVID-19. This allows to suggest that COVID-19 has a serious impact on cognition, especially in elder people. Among different domains only visuospatial and executive functioning, abstract thinking, attention and delayed recall were severely impaired, while other domains stayed relatively intact. Patients after COVID-19 also tend to have a mild depressive and anxiety state. Anxiety levels were higher than depressive levels, but not connected to cognitive functioning. Also, there was seen a positive correlation between anxiety and pO2 and negative between anxiety and comorbid cardiac pathology. However, this requires further studies to reveal. Another interesting finding was non-linear relationship between cognitive performance and depression, that allows to suggest rapidly evolving depressive mood in persons with severe cognitive impairment after COVID-19. Cognitive and emotional state of patients after COVID-19 was also highly connected with working status. Conclusion: Significant cognitive impairment was presented in almost all patients with COVID-19. There was a selective impairment in domains of visuospatial/ executive functioning, abstract thinking, attention and delayed recall. Conclusions: Significant cognitive impairment was presented in almost all patients with COVID-19. There was a selective impairment in domains of visuospatial/ executive functioning, abstract thinking, attention and delayed recall.

This review aims to map the available evidence on biopsychosocial predictors of elderly mental health. The articles were independently screened in three selected databases, namely Pubmed, Proquest and Google Scholar. The stages consist of identifying the research questions, seeking and selecting relevant evidence, mapping data, and concluding and reporting results. The PRISMA flowchart was used to show the PEOS evidence search flow. A total of 23,722 articles were obtained from all databases during the initial search, where 458 titles fulfilled the eligibility criteria at the title screening stage. Furthermore, 383 articles passed through abstract screening, where 75 met the inclusion criteria and were included for full-text screening. Based on the full-text screening stage, 28 articles were excluded and the remaining 47 articles that matched the search process were included for data extraction. This review creates biopsychosocial variables related to the mental health of the elderly. The biological factors consist of age, biomarkers, female, health conditions, chronic diseases, and physical function. Variables related to psychological factors are affect, personality traits, and subjective well-being. Meanwhile, social factors include smoking, sleep quality, physical activity, daily living, social support, marital status, loneliness, religiosity, spirituality, and early life conditions.

In immediate serial recall, a canonical short-term memory task, it is well established that performance is affected by several sublexical, lexical, and semantic factors. One factor that receives a growing interest is valence, whether a word is categorised as positive (e.g., happy) or as negative (e.g., pain). However, contradictory findings have recently emerged. Tse and Altarriba in two experiments with one set of stimuli and fixed lists concluded that valence affects serial recall performance, while Bireta et al. in three experiments with three sets of stimuli and randomised lists concluded that valence does not affect serial recall performance. Two experiments assessed the experimental discrepancy between Tse and Altarriba and Bireta et al. For both experiments, in one block, every participant saw the exact same lists as those used in Tse and Altarriba, and in the other block, each list was randomly constructed for each participant, as was done in Bireta et al. In Experiment 1, with concrete words varying in valence, we replicated the results of Tse and Altarriba with fixed lists and the results of Bireta et al. with randomised lists. In Experiment 2, with abstract words with both fixed and randomised lists, we replicate the absence of effect valence like Tse and Altarriba and Bireta et al. Overall, we conclude that valence does not affect serial recall and the discrepancy was attributed to the peculiarity of the fixed lists used by Tse and Altarriba.

Cancer remains one of the most enduring health crises of the modern world. Prehabilitation is a relatively new intervention aimed at preparing individuals for the stresses associated with treatment from diagnosis. Prehabilitation can include exercise, psychological and nutrition-based interventions. The present systematic review aimed to assess the efficacy of prehabilitation on affective and functional outcomes for young to midlife adult cancer patients (18-55 years). Outcomes of interest included prehabilitation programme composition, duration, mode of delivery and measures used to determine impact on affective and functional outcomes. The following databases were searched with controlled and free text vocabulary; Psychological Information database (PsychINFO), Culmunated Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online (MEDLINE), Excerpta Medica Database (EMBASE) and Public MEDLINE (PubMed). Abstract and full-text screening was conducted with a secondary reviewer and final texts were subject to risk of bias analysis. Thirteen texts were included at full-text. These included data of 797 prehabilitation participants (mean age 53 years) and a large representation of female participants (71% average). Evidence was found for the efficacy of psychological prehabilitation for anxiety reduction. Prehabilitation did not significantly affect health related quality of life. Findings moderately supported the therapeutic validity of exercise prehabilitation for functional outcomes, both in terms of clinical and experimental improvement with respect to the quality of evidence. Variation between all prehabilitation types was observed. There was insufficient evidence to support the efficacy of psychological prehabilitation on stress, distress or depression. Implications for future research are highlighted and then discussed with respect to this young to midlife age group.

This scoping review will map the extent and type of evidence related to psychosocial supports and interventions that facilitate adult cancer survivors' reintegration into daily life and activities after active cancer treatment. Cancer and its treatment have substantial late and long-term adverse impacts on survivors despite enhanced prospects for survival. Cancer survivors have unmet psychosocial care needs, and recent studies show a lack of focus in survivorship research on outcomes important to survivors. Reintegration is an emerging concept, identified as important to cancer survivors, that focuses on returning to a "new normal" after cancer treatment. This study will explore the available evidence on psychosocial interventions that are targeted toward this outcome. The population of interest is adult survivors (18 years and older at diagnosis) of any cancer type. Concepts of interest include psychosocial interventions targeting the outcome and reintegration into daily life after cancer treatment. Interventions addressing clinical depression or anxiety and interventions treating physical needs that are largely medically focused will be excluded. A scoping review of the literature will be conducted in MEDLINE, CINAHL, and Embase. Gray literature will be searched using ProQuest Dissertations and Theses. Studies will be screened at the title/abstract and full-text levels, and data will be extracted by 2 independent reviewers. Disagreements that cannot be resolved will be settled by a third reviewer. Findings will be summarized narratively and in tabular format. Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/r6bmx).

For a better intention inference, we often try to figure out the emotional states of other people in social communications. Many studies on affective computing have been carried out to infer emotions through perceiving human states, i.e., facial expression and body posture. Such methods are skillful in a controlled environment. However, it often leads to misestimation due to the deficiency of effective inputs in unconstrained circumstances, that is, where context-aware emotion recognition appeared. We take inspiration from the advanced reasoning pattern of humans in perceived emotion recognition and propose the hierarchical context-based emotion recognition method with scene graphs. We propose to extract three contexts from the image, i.e., the entity context, the global context, and the scene context. The scene context contains abstract information about entity labels and their relationships. It is similar to the information processing of the human visual sensing mechanism. After that, these contexts are further fused to perform emotion recognition. We carried out a bunch of experiments on the widely used context-aware emotion datasets, i.e., CAER-S, EMOTIC, and BOdy Language Dataset (BoLD). We demonstrate that the hierarchical contexts can benefit emotion recognition by improving the accuracy of the SOTA score from 84.82% to 90.83% on CAER-S. The ablation experiments show that hierarchical contexts provide complementary information. Our method improves the F1 score of the SOTA result from 29.33% to 30.24% (C-F1) on EMOTIC. We also build the image-based emotion recognition task with BoLD-Img from BoLD and obtain a better emotion recognition score (ERS) score of 0.2153.

The knowledge on health service use, systematic follow-up, and support for families bereaved by suicide remains scarce. This scoping review includes studies from 2010 to March 2022 that investigate the follow-up and support offered by health services, peer support services, and other resources available (e.g., internet-based resources) for families bereaved by suicide. We followed the scoping review framework provided by the Johanna Briggs Institute and performed a double-blinded screening process using Covidence. Data were extracted by four researchers and a thematic analysis was performed to summarize the results. The PRISMA Extension for Scoping reviews was used for reporting results. Of 2385 studies screened by title, 190 by abstract, and 93 by full-text reading, we included 63 original articles of which 24, 29 and 10 were quantitative, qualitative, or mixed-methods studies, respectively. The review shows that we have some knowledge about the need for, and experiences with, health services and support resources for immediate family members bereaved by suicide, but a lack of knowledge about their help-seeking behaviour, patient pathways, systematic follow-up, coordination between services, and long-term outcomes. We need more longitudinal observational studies of health service use and patient trajectories for people bereaved by suicide.

In recent years, digital techniques, such as virtual reality (VR) has been employed in tandem with more traditional psychological interventions. The aim of this study is to investigate whether VR-based mindfulness training can improve mental health outcomes, and notably mindfulness levels amongst adults. In addition, this review seeks to summarise the various designed VR scenarios, as well as those elements around VR that may assist people in practising mindfulness and meditation. The search for eligible studies for inclusion was conducted via the following databases: the Applied Social Science Index & Abstract (ASSIA), PsychINFO, Medline, EMBASE, and the Web-of-Science Core Collection. Only experimental studies were eligible for inclusion, and specifically, those that compared the effectiveness of mindfulness training using immersive VR (on the one hand) with a control condition. This search generated 2523 articles published between 2016 and 2022, and of these, 106 were assessed for eligibility. This review included seven studies, with a collective total of 798 participants. VR-based mindfulness training has been shown to be more effective than conventional mindfulness - it improves levels of mindfulness and meditation experience; but also shown to reduce anxiety, depression, improve sleep quality, emotion regulation, and generate mood improvement. VR-based mindfulness training frequently contains natural 'environmentally relevant' elements, such as forest, grassland, caves, sea, etc. CONCLUSIONS: This review suggests that using VR to assist mindfulness training is an effective and innovative way to improve mental health conditions within the adult population. Further directions and limitations are discussed.

In humans, tear volume increases during emotional arousal. To our knowledge, no previous studies have investigated the relationship between emotional arousal and tear volume in animals. We performed the Schirmer tear test (STT) and measured tear volume in dogs before and after reunions with owners and familiar non-owners. Tear volume increased significantly during reunion with the owner, but not with a familiar non-owner. When an oxytocin solution was applied to dogs' eyes, the tear volume also increased, suggesting that oxytocin might mediate tear secretion during owner-dog reunions. Finally, human participants rated their impressions on photos of dogs with or without artificial tears and they assigned more positive scores to the photos with artificial tears. These results suggest that emotion-elicited tears can facilitate human-dog emotional connections. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Losing a family member due to suicide has been described as a traumatic experience, as suicide-bereaved relatives grapple to accept the particular character of death and the core elements of guilt, self-criticism and stigma it inflicts. There are long-term consequences for those who bereave due to the suicide of their beloved on, a high risk for mental and physical health problems included. Feelings of guilt and self-stigma influence help-seeking behaviour among suicide-bereaved individuals. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Coping mechanisms adopted by suicide-bereaved individuals mediate the impact of suicide on their family, and especially on the quality of relationships among them. Supporting others in need can help alleviate guilt and self-blame for the suicide while it enables the bereaved to fulfil their need to keep a non-traumatizing, or even positive bond with the deceased. WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE ARE?: Nursing interventions to facilitate suicide-bereaved family members' participation in self-help support groups and promote their engagement in supporting others in need are important. Mental health nurses need to facilitate the replacement of dysfunctional coping strategies, such as substance use or self-blame with more adaptive ones focused on the personal needs of the bereaved, in order to help them embrace a non-traumatizing memory of the deceased while being in peace with the social environment. Screening for mental health problems and management of shame, self-stigma and guilt during the grieving period needs to be a priority in nursing interventions. INTRODUCTION: Losing a family member to suicide is a traumatic experience which includes guilt and self-stigma. Yet, there is lack of data synthesis on the survivors' experience. A meta-synthesis of qualitative data on the interpretation of loss in suicide-bereaved family members, their coping strategies and the effects on family. A meta-ethnographic synthesis following a systematic literature search and evaluation of the methodological quality of the selected studies was applied. The narratives of 326 individuals (parents/siblings/children/spouses) reported in sixteen studies were analysed. Trying to achieve a balance between keeping alive a non-traumatizing memory of the deceased, destigmatizing and liberating themselves from self-blame, self-criticism and guilt while being able to transform this experience into support towards others in need, was identified as the essence of the experience of the bereaved. Although suicide within a family is a traumatic experience, spiritual and existential implications among the bereaved have been reported; their coping mechanisms mediate the impact of suicide on family sustainability. Nursing interventions to facilitate adoption of coping strategies centred on keeping a non-traumatizing memory of the deceased among the bereaved and promote their participation in self-help groups and activities to support others in need are important.

Depression affects an individual's physical health and mental well-being and, in pregnant and postpartum women, has specific adverse short- and long-term effects on maternal, child, and family health. The aim of these two systematic reviews is to identify evidence on the benefits and harms of screening for depression compared to no screening in the general adult and pregnant and postpartum populations in primary care or non-mental health clinic settings. These reviews will inform recommendations by the Canadian Task Force on Preventive Health Care. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and the Cochrane Library using a randomized controlled trial filter, where applicable, October 4, 2018, and updated to May 11, 2020. We also searched for gray literature (e.g., websites of organizations of health professionals and patients). Study selection for depression screening trials was performed first on title and abstract, followed by full-text screening. Data extraction, assessment of the risk of bias using the Cochrane risk of bias tool, and application of Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation were performed by one reviewer and validated by a second reviewer. A total of three trials were included. All three trials were included in the general adult review, while one of the three trials was included in the pregnant and postpartum review. We did not pool results due to substantial differences between studies and high risk of bias. In the general adult review, the first trial (n = 1001) evaluated whether screening for depression in adults with acute coronary syndrome compared to usual care improves health-related quality of life, depression symptoms, or harms of screening at 6, 12, and 18 months. There were little to no differences between the groups at 18 months for the outcomes. The second trial included adults (n = 1412) undergoing initial consultation for osteoarthritis, evaluated for depression and general health (mental and physical) after initial consultation and at 3, 6, and 12 months. The physical component score was statistically significantly lower (worse health) in the screened group at 6 months; however, this difference was not significant at 3 or at 12 months. There were no clinically important or statistically significant differences for other outcomes between groups at any time. The third trial (included in both reviews) reported on 462 postpartum women. At 6 months postpartum, fewer women in the screening group were identified as possibly depressed compared to the control group (RR 0.59, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.39 to 0.89) and mean EPDS scores were also statistically significantly lower in the screened group (standardized mean difference 0.34 lower (95% CI 0.15 to 0.52 lower)). All other outcomes did not differ between groups at follow-up. There were serious concerns about the cut-offs used for the questionnaire used to screen, diagnostic confirmation, selective outcome reporting, and the reported magnitude of effects. There are limitations of the evidence included in the reviews. There was moderate certainty in the evidence from one trial that screening for depression in the general adult population in primary care or non-mental health clinic settings likely results in little to no difference on reported outcomes; however, the evidence was uncertain from the other two included trials. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of screening for depression in pregnant or postpartum women in primary care or non-mental health clinic settings. Well-conducted and better-reported trials are needed that meet the screening trial criteria used in this review. Both protocols have been registered in the International Prospective Registry of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) [adult: CRD42018099690 ; pregnancy and postpartum: CRD42018099689 ﻿] and published ( https://systematicreviewsjournal.biomedcentral.com/track/pdf/10.1186/s13643-018-0930-3 ).

Birthing individuals experience various postpartum symptoms which have been associated with adverse health outcomes. Previous systematic reviews have focused on the examination of individual symptoms and their impact on health, which have limited our understanding of postpartum symptom clusters. To examine the compositions of symptom clusters, analytic methodologies and predictors of symptom clusters in birthing individuals up to 1 year postpartum. Systematic review. This systematic review was reported following the PRISMA. Five databases were searched: PubMed, Embase, CINAHL Complete, PsycINFO and Scopus. Two reviewers performed title and abstract and full-text screening independently. Standard Quality Assessment Criteria were used to assess the articles' qualities. Key information was extracted into evidence table, which was checked for accuracy and completeness. A narrative synthesis was conducted. A total of 30 articles were included. Studies were conducted in 16 countries, mostly in Europe (n = 9) and North America (n = 7). The majority were quantitative (n = 27) and cross-sectional (n = 27). Factor analysis was the most frequently used analytic methodology (n = 21). All three qualitative studies used grounded theory. Taking into consideration the variations among the studies, stress (n = 15, infant or partner-related and from other sources), depression (n = 12), somatic (n = 12) and anxiety clusters (n = 10) were most frequently identified. Symptom cluster predictors were examined in less than half of the included studies (n = 13). Among these, most were focused on how individual postpartum symptoms influence symptom clusters. Stress, depression, somatic and anxiety clusters are the most frequently identified postpartum symptom clusters. Future studies should examine the consistency, stability and clinical meaningfulness of these four symptom clusters. The identification and management of the four symptom clusters should be of particular interest to clinicians and researchers. This systematic review did not directly involve patient or public contribution to the manuscript.

Many so-called "high functioning" autistic individuals struggle with daily living skills, and have poorer than expected adult outcomes in employment, relationships, and quality of life. Significant discrepancies between non-verbal intelligence and emotional processing can be observed in autism, but the role of the magnitude of this gap in achieving potential psychosocial outcome is not known. Here, we show in a large group of participants (n = 107), that only among those with an autism diagnosis (n = 33), the gap between non-verbal intelligence (as measured by Raven's matrices) and the ability to perform the Reading the Mind in the Eyes test significantly predicts self-perceived emotional/social difficulties as assessed by the Empathy Quotient. Our results suggest that it is specifically the magnitude of the gap between (high) levels of abstract reasoning skills and poor proficiency in reading emotions expressed by the eyes that predicts self-perceived difficulties in emotional and social interactions among adults with autism. A better understanding of the underlying causes of the discrepancy between potential and actual psychosocial outcomes is the first step toward developing the most appropriate support for this vulnerable population, and our study offers some potentially important insights in this regard.

In the context of economic games, adults sacrifice money to avoid unequal outcomes, showing so-called inequity aversion. Child-friendly adaptations of these games have shown that children, too, show inequity aversion. Moreover, inequity aversion shows a clear developmental trajectory, with young children rejecting only disadvantageously unequal distributions and older children rejecting both disadvantageously and advantageously unequal distributions. However, based on existing work, it is difficult to compare adult and child responses to inequity because (1) adapting economic games to make them child-friendly may importantly alter the dynamics of the fairness interaction and (2) adult work typically uses abstract rewards such as money while work with children typically uses more concrete rewards like candy, stickers or toys. Here we adapted the Inequity Game-a paradigm designed to study children's responses to inequality in isolation from other concerns-to test inequity aversion in adults (N = 104 pairs). We manipulated whether participants made decisions about concrete rewards (candy) or abstract rewards (tokens that could be traded in for money). We found that, like children, adults rejected unequal payoffs in this task. Additionally, we found that reward type mattered: adults rejected disadvantageous-but not advantageous-monetary distributions, yet rejected both disadvantageous and advantageous candy distributions. These findings allow us to draw clearer comparisons across child and adult responses to unfairness and help paint a fuller picture of inequity aversion in humans.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Although sexual violence is prevalent, incidents of stranger rape remain statistically uncommon. Societal stigma and myths surrounding sexual violence are widespread. An individual's experience in the immediate aftermath and beyond can be shaped by the perception/s of sexual violence which are held and expressed by those they come into contact with. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper adds to the limited literature base and the population and practical-knowledge gap around a specific form of sexual violence. This paper also demonstrates the need for reflection and discussion in minimizing blame that can unconsciously be shifted onto survivors in the form of myths and stereotypical views of sexual violence. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Perceptions may be held around sexual violence, and by extension about the survivor, which may impede engagement and the building of trust within a therapeutic relationship. Myths that are synonymous with rape and all forms of sexual violence can be held by professionals, and lead to blame, negative judgement and lack of empathy towards survivors. Given the prevalence of sexual violence, this paper is applicable across all health and social care settings, and in particular mental health nursing professionals who may be more likely to meet people who have experienced sexual trauma. ABSTRACT: Introduction This narrative illustrates the lived experience of a specific form of sexual violence (stranger rape) and its resulting implications as experienced by the second author, which is discussed under the following headings: your body as a crime scene, how lived experience compares to the myth of the 'real rape' and the wellbeing and health consequences arising from the experience. [Correction added on 5 September 2022, after first online publication: The preceding paragraph has been corrected in this version.] Aim In their capacity as mental health nurses, the authors invite readers to consider the spoken, or more likely unheard stories of sexual violence, which are unfortunately commonplace among those who access mental health services. Implications for Practice For professionals holding the privileged position of hearing these stories, there is a need to be reflective as to how fear, and personal or professionally held myths and stigmatizing views of sexual violence, and by extension views towards the survivor, are carried into therapeutic spaces, and the implications these can have. Practical suggestions as to how to discuss and manage disclosure of sexual violence in the context of trauma informed care are also provided.

To determine the parsimonious model of the interrelationships of personal resilience, social support, loneliness and quality of life (QoL) and to identify the mediating effect of loneliness among nursing students amidst the pandemic. The coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic led to control measures which increased loneliness among students due to disrupted social connections and sudden shift to virtual learning. During these changes, resilience and social support can significantly influence how learners deal with pandemic-related stresses thus, minimizing loneliness and enhancing QoL. Although studies posited the influence of resilience and social support with loneliness and QoL, these were conducted prior the COVID-19 pandemic wherein loneliness and feelings of isolation play a crucial part. Correlational, theory testing using covariance-based structural equation modeling METHODS: A total of 550 nursing students from a comprehensive university in Manila, Philippines were recruited from September to October 2021 and answered four standardized, validated scales. A good and parsimonious model (x Social support and personal resilience positively affected QoL, while loneliness had a negative effect. Through the mediation of loneliness, the effects of social support on QoL decreases. However, the mediation of resilience further decreases loneliness and improves QoL. The presented model assists nurse educators and administrators in developing strategies to enhance social support, resilience and QoL among students while mitigating the negative effects loneliness during the pandemic. Loneliness and Resilience are mediators of student nurses' quality of life during COVID-19 pandemic. Social support is the common predictor.

This study aimed to investigate adherence to Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) for abstracts in reports of randomised trials on child and adolescent depression prevention. Secondary objective was to examine factors associated with overall reporting quality. Meta-epidemiological study. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, PsycArticles and CENTRAL. Trials were eligible if the sample consisted of children and adolescents under 18 years with or without an increased risk for depression or subthreshold depression. We included reports published from 1 January 2003 to 8 August 2020 on randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and cluster randomised trials (CRTs) assessing universal, selective and indicated interventions aiming to prevent the onset of depression or reducing depressive symptoms. As the primary outcome measure, we assessed for each trial abstract whether information recommended by CONSORT was adequately reported, inadequately reported or not reported. Moreover, we calculated a summative score of overall reporting quality and analysed associations with trial and journal characteristics. We identified 169 eligible studies, 103 (61%) RCTs and 66 (39%) CRTs. Adequate reporting varied considerably across CONSORT items: while 9 out of 10 abstracts adequately reported the study objective, no abstract adequately provided information on blinding. Important adverse events or side effects were only adequately reported in one out of 169 abstracts. Summative scores for the abstracts' overall reporting quality ranged from 17% to 83%, with a median of 40%. Scores were associated with the number of authors, abstract word count, journal impact factor, year of publication and abstract structure. Reporting quality for abstracts of trials on child and adolescent depression prevention is suboptimal. To help health professionals make informed judgements, efforts for improving adherence to reporting guidelines for abstracts are needed.

People have ideas about the attributes (i.e., traits or characteristics that vary along a dimension) that they like in others (e.g., "I like intelligence in a romantic partner"), and these ideas about liking are called 

Loneliness in Adolescents Against the Background of the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Risk Factor 

Cardiovascular disease has risen sharply and causes more premature deaths than cancer, while it represents a major economic burden for healthcare systems and impacts patients' quality of life negatively. Virtual reality has captured the attention of researchers in the field of cardiac rehabilitation. However, the efficacy of virtual reality among individuals undergoing cardiac rehabilitation remains inconclusive. To appraise research evidence on the effects of virtual reality for individuals undergoing cardiac rehabilitation. Systematic review and meta-analysis. A systematic search of publications was conducted using Pubmed, Embase, Web of science, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature database (CINAHL), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled trials and Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro) from inception to 15 May 2022, without language restriction. The Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool was used to examine the methodological quality of the included randomized controlled studies. When feasible, a meta-analysis was performed to calculate the pooled effects using Review Manager (Version 5.4). Otherwise, narrative summaries were performed. The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology was used to assess the certainty of the evidence. A total of ten studies were included. Virtual reality probably increases exercise capacity for individuals undergoing cardiac rehabilitation (the pooled mean difference 49.55, 95% confidence interval 30.59 ~ 68.52, P < 0.00001, moderate-certainty evidence) and might result in a reduction in emotional tension (mean difference -6.43, 95% confidence interval -9.02 ~ -3.84, P < 0.00001, low-certainty evidence) and intrapsychic stress (mean difference -4.25, 95% confidence interval -6.83 to -1.67, P = 0.001, low-certainty evidence). It also seemed to have a positive effect on quality of life, although meta-analysis could not be conducted to pool the results. Virtual reality might reduce depression (standardised mean difference -0.48, 95% confidence interval -0.84 ~ -0.12, P = 0.009,very low- certainty evidence), but the evidence was uncertain, with similar results of anxiety, general level of stress, external stress, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein. The evidence was uncertain about the effect of virtual reality on high-density lipoprotein (mean difference -1.79, 95% confidence interval -8.96 ~ 5.38, P = 0.62, very low-certainty evidence), with similar results of triglycerides and BMI. Individuals undergoing cardiac rehabilitation may benefit from virtual reality since it can improve exercise capacity and psychological outcomes. More large, and well-designed studies with tailored virtual reality intervention are warranted to confirm the effects of virtual reality on individuals undergoing cardiac rehabilitation. Virtual reality may benefit individuals undergoing cardiac rehabilitation since it can improve exercise capacity and psychological outcomes.

Even though having a kidney transplant is the treatment of choice for children with kidney failure, it can cause anxiety for patients and their families resulting in decreased psychosocial functioning, adherence, and self-management. We set out to identify the information needs required to help pediatric patients and their families contextualize their posttransplant experiences as they recalibrate their understanding of normalcy throughout their transplant journey. Participants submitted photographs related to feeling: (1) worried, (2) confident, (3) similar to peers without kidney disease, and (4) different from these peers. The photographs served as a foundation for an in-depth interview. Nineteen individuals (10 pediatric transplant recipients and 9 caregivers) were interviewed at a mean of 8 years posttransplant. We identified five specific themes and tensions our participants associated with recalibrating their version of "normal" throughout the transplant journey: (1) exchanging information (information consumers vs. information contributors, (2) transitional management (family management vs. self-management), (3) building confidence (worry vs. confidence), (4) telling one's story (hiding vs. self-expression), and (5) normalizing kidney transplantation (feeling different vs. feeling similar). These five themes/tensions form one's Kidney Identity, shift from negative to positive throughout the transplant journey, illustrating a more abstract and complex account of kidney transplantation over time. Having a patient view their Kidney Identity over time may support self-reflection of one's progress posttransplant and potentially help clinicians, patients, and their caregivers identify barriers and areas where they may need more support to ensure their successful engagement in their care.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Self-management comprises five core skills: "Problem Solving, Decision-Making, Resource Utilization, Forming a Patient/Healthcare Provider Partnership and Taking Action." Effective self-management among patients diagnosed with anxiety can reduce the number of relapses and improve treatment outcomes. Knowledge of the impact of the family atmosphere, well-being and illness symptoms on self-management in patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders is limited. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO THE EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first study in China to explore whether family atmosphere and well-being of patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders affects self-management. This paper adds to the list of factors influencing self-management among patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders. SAS scores are a major factor influencing self-management among patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders. The subjective well-being of patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders can influence their self-management behaviour. Patients who experienced family harmony had significantly higher self-management scores than those who experienced family disharmony. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Nurses should encourage patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders to manage their condition while receiving treatment at home. Nurses should focus on patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders who have significant anxiety symptoms and low well-being. Nurses should emphasize the importance of the home environment in family self-management and affirm that a good home environment promotes patient self-management. INTRODUCTION: Better self-management can improve treatment outcomes and reduce the number of relapses for patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders. However, the impact of well-being and the home environment on self-management among patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders is unclear in China. This study sought to determine the impact of the home environment, well-being and illness symptoms on self-management during home treatment for patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders. This cross-sectional study was conducted with patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders. Data were collected with SAS, Self-Management Scale for People with Anxiety Disorders and Index of Well-being. Frequency, percentage, analysis of variance, Kruskal-Wallis and multiple linear regression analyses were used. Home environment (p < .001), self-perceived quality of life (p = .015), well-being index (p = .002) and SAS total score (p = .033) had a major impact on self-management in patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders (n = 245). Family disharmony, poor self-perceived quality of life, high SAS scores and low levels of well-being were significant influences on self-management among people diagnosed with anxiety disorders. Nurses should focus on the self-management of patients diagnosed with significant anxiety symptoms and low well-being and value the importance of the home environment in facilitating self-management among patients diagnosed with anxiety disorders.

Fear of childbirth is an anxiety associated with childbirth, which manifests itself in physical and concentration problems. It is often associated with requesting a cesarean section, and it is prevalent in nulliparous women. This is a study aimed to summarize the published research on the factors for fear of childbirth in nulliparous women in Iran. This study was conducted based on the PRISMA statement. A literature search was performed on nine electronic databases (Web of Sciences, Since Direct, Scopus, PubMed, Cochrane Library, ProQuest, and Persian databases including Scientific Information Database, Irandoc, and Magiran) using keywords related to fear of childbirth, factors, nulliparous, and Iran from 2000 to 2020. This study included cross-sectional studies with full-text in English or Persian in Iran. The quality of the selected studies was evaluated independently by two authors and via the STROBE checklist. In this study, 93 articles were identified,13 duplicate articles were excluded, 80 articles were screened by title and abstract, 62 were excluded, and the full-text of 18 articles was assessed for analysis. Of these, 12 were excluded, and six articles were reviewed. Six studies were conducted in different provinces of Iran. Based on the study results, factors of the fear of childbirth in nulliparous women were: biological (the process of labor and childbirth and labor pain, concern for the baby (harm to the baby and baby infirmity), psychological (painful injections during labor and suturing in childbirth), and individual (loss of control during labor). This study identified four main factors that affect fear of childbirth status in nulliparous women, and concern for the baby was a more common factor in this study. In conclusion, these factors can be reduced by increasing their assurance about child health, training during pregnancy, talking about positive experiences, and holding workshops.

Risk Factors for School Based Anxiety: An Empirical Study 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Sometimes someone needs to be in hospital because they are struggling with their mental health and need some extra support but being in hospital can also be a difficult experience. There are a lot of restrictions in place in hospital, like locked doors, rules to follow and not much choice about what happens to you. Other research has found that these restrictions can feel difficult and stressful for people and so more research is needed about this. We wanted to know what being in hospital felt like for women in particular. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We interviewed women who were in hospital because of their mental health about what it was like for them in hospital. The women told us that they felt powerless while they were in hospital. They sometimes felt like they were being punished and this could affect their mood and could lead to them hurting themselves. They also said that they were not always listened to by staff, and they found it difficult being away from their family and friends while they were in hospital. The women also told us that being in hospital could sometimes help them to feel safe. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Women should be looked after in hospital in a way that helps them to feel in control of what happens to them. They should be supported to be able to go outside the hospital on leave, to keep in touch with their family and friends, and they should be listened to by staff. A project called "safewards" has suggested some ways for helping to make hospital wards safer. They have suggested that everyone should be clear about what the rules are when they go into hospital and ways that staff could communicate more clearly with the people they are working with. Our research supports using these techniques. ABSTRACT: Introduction Inpatient care often involves restrictive interventions such as seclusion and restraint and restrictive practices that limit the person's freedom, rights and daily activities. Restrictive practice has not been the explicit focus in previous research; however, it often appears as an important theme, with participants identifying it can have a detrimental effect on their well-being. More research specifically on this topic in an inpatient setting is, therefore, needed. Women might be particularly vulnerable to adverse effects of restrictive practices compared to men as women generally occupy less powerful positions in society and more often experience abuse. Aims The study aimed to explore women's experiences of routine restrictive practices in mental health inpatient settings. Methods Twenty-two women who were currently inpatients on mental health wards were interviewed about their experiences of restrictive practices in hospital. Interviews were analysed using thematic analysis. Results An overarching theme emerged of powerlessness. Four key sub-themes were also identified: restrictions perceived as punitive, having no voice, impact of restrictions on relationships and restrictions providing safety and support. Discussion Although restrictive practices were found to provide the women with a sense of safety, they were also found to impact upon the women's well-being, leading to increases in self-harm and over-reliance on restrictions. Implications for practice This research highlights the importance of gender-informed inpatient services for women that foster independence, empowerment and allow women to have their voices heard. Safewards interventions such as clear mutual expectations and soft words could contribute to mitigating the impact of restrictive practices.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 59(3) of 

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: A significant proportion of fathers report experiencing depression after their baby is born Fathers are not offered regular support for their psychological well-being in the transition to parenthood despite an acknowledged need for such support WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Lived experience provides new insight into how one father experienced postnatal depression, including the role of his partner in help-seeking It explains the delayed presentation in help-seeking as resulting from healthcare practitioner language and attitudes, and gendered expectations around mental health and help-seeking in the context of fatherhood WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING?: Mental health nurses should be aware that postnatal depression can affect fathers as well as mothers, and that it is necessary to support fathers in safe spaces and with appropriate language Planning care for depression in men should consider the recent birth of a child in order to provide effective care Clearer guidance is needed for supporting new fathers with postnatal depression ABSTRACT: Introduction Fathers are not universally supported with their perinatal mental health, but evidence shows that they suffer at a similar level to mothers. Aim This paper examines the journey of one father through his PND experience, his help seeking, and encounters in healthcare, in order to highlight the needs of a depressed father. Method The method is a father's lived experience narrative which has been written alongside a health visitor who highlights the relevance of the condition to healthcare practice. Results & Discussion The needs of fathers are unmet. They require support which considers their gender role expectations. Partners are key to their help seeking. Implications for practice The language and sensitivity used by nurses is key to encouraging fathers to share their depression and reduce stigma around the condition.

Patients with minor stroke or transient ischemic attack are encouraged to adopt a healthy lifestyle to prevent recurrent stroke. After discharge health behaviour is performed in an individual everyday context and must be properly understood within this context, including which aspects act as facilitators or barriers for healthy behaviour. To explore the experience of daily life in patients discharged home after minor stroke or transient ischemic attack, focusing on perceived health and reflection on health behaviour, and how this is associated with their overall experience of returning to their everyday context in relation to potential sequelae of stroke. Semi-structured qualitative interviews were conducted 3 - 13 months after discharge with sixteen patients discharged home after minor stroke or transient ischemic attack. Inductive thematic analysis was performed to analyse the interviews. Participants associated their health and behaviour within a lens of worrying for future life prospect and triggered by perceived intrusive changes in their life condition. Even though some found it possible to resume participation in everyday life within weeks, they became increasingly aware that minor cognitive deficits, difficulties with planning, multi-tasking, memory, and fatigue influenced their health believes and behavioural patterns. The need for social and professional support had to be balanced against a wish for independence. Patients with minor stroke or transient ischemic attacks experience changes as both being concrete in the form of persisting symptoms and abstract in the form of worries and uncertainty about the future. Perceived health was associated with a new sense of vulnerability due to realisations about the risk of recurrent stroke. Worries were anchored within the individual to handle, but for some they serve as a motivator to regulate their behaviour in order to master health.

Shame and dissociation have been implicated theoretically and empirically in trauma exposure and its sequelae, with shame understood as an intense negative emotion and dissociation as a reaction to intense negative emotions. Understanding the connection between shame and dissociation is important for theory and practice; however, the strength of this association remains unclear. For example, in therapy, both shame and dissociation serve as a barrier to engaging with emotion. Theoretically, these two states should be distinct, as one (dissociation) confers low affective intensity and the other (shame) high intensity. The present meta-analysis focused on the magnitude of the association between these two phenomena and investigated the extent to which gender, trauma exposure, psychiatric comorbidities, and demographic characteristics influence this association given their independent links to shame and dissociation. An initial search of six databases identified 151,844 articles. Duplicates were removed, and additional articles were excluded based on abstract and title screening. After contacting authors for missing data, a full-text screen yielded 25 articles for the present analysis. The results indicate that shame and dissociation were moderately correlated (k = 33, n = 4,705), r = .42, 95% CI [.35, .48], p < .001, but no clear clinical moderators emerged. Despite this association, very few studies utilized experimental designs to examine the association between these constructs. Future research should focus on experimental study designs to investigate the extent to which shame induces dissociation or vice versa.

Is art appreciation universal? Previous evidence suggests a general preference for representational art over abstract art, and a tendency to like art originating from one's own culture more than another culture (an ingroup bias), modulated by art expertise. However, claims about universality are difficult given that most research has focused on Western populations. Across two pre-registered and statistically powered experiments, we explore the role of culture and art expertise in the aesthetic evaluation of Indian and Western paintings and dance depicting both abstract and representational content, by inviting expert and art-naïve Indian and Western participants to rate stimuli on beauty and liking. Results suggest an ingroup bias (for dance) and a preference for representational art (for paintings) exists, both modulated by art expertise. As predicted, the ingroup bias was present only in art-naïve participants, and the preference for representational art was lower in art experts, but this modulation was present only in Western participants. The current findings have two main implications: (1) they inform and constrain understanding of universality of aesthetic appreciation, cautioning against generalising models of empirical aesthetics to non-western populations and across art forms, (2) they highlight the importance of art experience as a medium to counter prejudices.

The objective of this literature review is to explore how depression and inflammatory conditions relate to gender among nurses working shifts. Relevant studies available on the PubMed database over the past decade were consulted. The main keywords were: "shift nurses", "depression", "gender Shift Nurses", "Gender Role", "shift nurse", "gender roles", "Inflammation" and then, free terms were combined with the Boolean AND operator. Inclusion and exclusion criteria had been formerly identified, and then, all the selected studies were assessed according to the following criteria, good description, and appropriateness of study design (objective and method), sample (sufficiently numerous, clarity of treatment allocation criteria, absence of important bias), intervention, outcomes, statistical analysis, and clinical relevance. 61 titles concerning research on inflammation were found. 28 titles were not taken into account as doubles whilst 33 were selected by title and abstract; in addition, 28 were discarded because they were not relevant to the objective or because they did not meet the inclusion criteria. Out of the remaining 5, a further 2 were also discarded upon a careful analysis of the whole text: they did not prove relevant to the research question. As for the research related to depression, the research strategy highlighted 186 articles in the first place and then eliminated 165 of them either because they were duplicates or on the grounds that they did not answer the research questions; 21 texts were thoroughly analyzed and, after a careful read, 4 studies were eventually incorporated in this review. Since data available in the literature were inconsistent, it was difficult to establish that all depression conditions could be associated with an increase in inflammation and vice versa and that this condition was strictly connected to the female gender.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Irritability is a transdiagnostic psychiatric symptom among different mental health diagnoses, such as depression, anxiety, personality and substance abuse disorders. Despite the prevalence of irritability across various psychiatric disorders, there is a lack of assessment measures developed and validated to specifically assess irritability. Existing evidence suggests that young adults with depression combined with irritability experience higher disease burden compared with depressed peers with low levels of irritability. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This integrative review demonstrates that the Brief Irritability Test (BITe) is a more precise and reliable tool for measuring irritability in young adults, particularly in that it differentiates irritability from related but distinct symptoms such as anger, aggression and hostility. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Utilizing valid and reliable tools to measure irritability could help identify the presence of irritability as a distinct construct, which could lead to the development of tailored/personalized mental health interventions that will adequately address the impact of irritability on functioning. The findings have implications for symptom science, one focus of nursing research that evaluates symptom experiences and their impact on quality of life and functioning. Irritability is consistent with this framework as it has disabling effects on educational, financial and social functioning, as well as vulnerability to psychiatric disorders and health-related quality of life. ABSTRACT: Introduction Irritability is associated with a higher burden of psychiatric symptoms and impairments in young adults' educational, financial and social functioning. Still, it has been measured mainly by subscales within larger tools. Few specific measures have been developed to capture this construct validly and reliably, hindering the differentiation of irritability from similar constructs like anger and aggression. Aim This integrative review was undertaken to identify the irritability measures used in young adults between 2000 and 2021. Method The 5-stage method was proposed by Whittemore and Knafl (Journal of Advanced Nursing, 52, 546, 2005). Results Of 1258 results, 15 articles that included young adults as their participants and measured irritability with a specific tool were identified to be reviewed. Discussion Among the existing tools, the Brief Irritability Test (BITe) is a more precise and specific tool in young adults for measuring irritability and differentiating irritability from similar constructs. Implications for practice The findings have potential implications for better assessment and understanding of irritability in nursing research and practice, leading to the development of nursing interventions tailored to the affected young adult populations and improving the quality of life in these groups.

A Classroom-Based Pilot of a Self-Compassion Intervention to Increase Wellbeing in Early adolescents Abstract Objective:  Our first aim was to examine the effect of a 4-week self-compassion-based intervention on emotional well-being in a school classroom of early adolescents. The second aim was to evaluate feasibility and acceptability of the program within a classroom setting.  Design:  This study was a pre-post pilot design utilizing paired sample  t -tests to examine within-person changes in the outcome measures prior to, and following, the intervention. Bivariate correlations were also used to assess covariation between the pre-to-post change scores in self-compassion and the pre-to-post change scores in the outcome measures. The intervention was conducted during a wellbeing class at a culturally diverse secondary school. The sample comprised 18 students aged 12- to 14-years old ( M age  = 12.44,  SD  = 0.61).  Intervention:  A brief self-compassion-based program, Be Kind to Yourself, Inspire Others, was developed specifically for early adolescents and delivered across four 70- minute lessons. The outcome measures were self-compassion, resilience, perceived stress, social and general anxiety, and peer and school connectedness. Findings revealed significant increases in self-compassion, resilience, and peer connectedness, and significant decreases in social and general anxiety at posttest, with small to medium effect sizes (Hedges'  g =  0.30-0.67). No significant differences were found for perceived stress and school connectedness. Pre-to-post changes in self-compassion covaried with pre-to-post changes in resilience and peer connectedness. Feasibility and acceptability were high. Findings suggest that a brief, classroom-based self-compassion intervention may be feasible and effective in improving indicators of emotional well-being among early adolescents.

The reported equivocal evidence of the effectiveness of disability simulation programs in reducing ableist attitudes toward people with disabilities has led to a persistent debate about the suggested discontinuation of such simulation programs to avoid further reinforcement of ableism. The present research conducted a meta-analysis on 12 empirical studies evaluating the impact of mobility disability simulation programs on attitudes toward people with disabilities and environmental accessibility to better inform future research and practice. A citation search using keywords related to "disability" and "simulation" in the title and/or abstract in 11 major online databases (i.e., Cochrane, EBSCOhost, EMBASE, Google Scholar, IEEE Xplore, JSTOR, LearnTechLib, ProQuest, PsycINFO, Scopus, and Web of Science) was conducted to retrieve relevant empirical articles that are published within the earliest dates of each database and June 2021 for the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis using a random effects model revealed that participation in the simulation programs resulted in large effect sizes in increasing fear and anxiety [Cohen's d = -1.51, 95% CI (-2.98, -.05), n = 2] but small effect sizes in improving conceptions of social inclusion at postsimulation [Cohen's d = .24, 95% CI (.01, .47), n = 5] while reducing stereotypes toward people with disabilities at follow-up [Cohen's d = .57, 95% CI (.10, 1.03), n = 3]. Inconclusive changes in the behavioral tendency of inclusion-promoting actions and stereotypes at postsimulation were found. The three exploratory moderators (i.e., the program duration, the presence of facilitators with disabilities, and the debriefing arrangement) were not statistically significantly associated with between-subgroup differences in the program's effectiveness in reducing stereotypes toward people with disabilities. The findings informed a series of recommended reforms in the program message framing, formats of the simulation, scope and referents of outcome measures, incorporation of environmental perspectives and behavioral measures, and methodological quality of the program evaluation study.

Simulation is a promising strategy in health education, with evidence of importance for learning, but the available systematic reviews are still inconclusive about the effect of the strategy on stress, anxiety, and self-confidence of nursing students, which impact the adherence to and sustainment of this strategy. Thus, better evidence is needed of the impact of simulation on these competences, essential for health professional education. To evaluate the effect of simulation-based experiences on stress, anxiety, self-confidence and learning of undergraduate nursing students compared to conventional teaching strategies or no intervention. Systematic review with meta-analysis and meta-regression. The databases used included: CENTRAL, CINAHL, Embase®, ERIC, LILACS, MEDLINE, PsycINFO®, SCOPUS and Web of Science. Additional searches occurred in PQDT Open (ProQuest), BDTD, Google Scholar and journals with a specific scope in clinical simulation. This study was conducted by the recommendations of the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. Experimental and quasi-experimental studies that compared the effects of simulation on stress, anxiety, and self-confidence of nursing students were included. Study selection and data extraction steps were performed independently by two reviewers. Critical appraisal of the studies was managed by means of the risk of bias tools RoB 2 and ROBINS-I, and quality of evidence by means of the GRADE tool. Data summarization was performed by qualitative synthesis with descriptive analysis and quantitative synthesis by meta-analytic methods and meta-regression. Sixty-two studies were included covering an overall sample of 4570 undergraduate nursing students. When comparing simulation with other teaching strategies, simulation showed small effect size for anxiety (d = -0.33; 95% CI: -0.66-0.002; p = 0.051) and medium effect size for self-confidence (d = 0.71; 95% CI: 0.46-0.95; p < 0.001); there was no difference in the effect-size for stress (d = 0.04; 95% CI:-0.91-0.99; p = 0.90). Subgroup analyses showed an effect of methodological characteristics of the studies on students' anxiety and self-confidence. A positive relationship between self-confidence and learning was identified by meta-regression (p = 0.018; R Simulation is an effective strategy for reducing anxiety and increasing self-confidence compared to conventional teaching strategies. Results are still inconclusive for stress. The use of simulation-based experiences in nursing education obtains positive results on anxiety and self-confidence in students, providing support for its implementation in undergraduate curricula to improve the education of qualified nurses. CRD42020206077. Simulation is an effective teaching strategy for reducing anxiety and increasing self-confidence in learning.

Young children's use of smartphones and tablets is increasingly prevalent. Smartphones and tablets are part of families' daily lives. Therefore, preschoolers are confronted with mobile devices as well, and learn to use them naturally. Specialists who work with children or deal with various aspects of early childhood development are alarmed and warn of resulting harmful effects. It is also feared that research on the impact of smartphone and tablet use on child development cannot keep pace with the rapid technological developments. This review therefore looks at associations between the use of mobile devices and social-emotional development as well as the emergence of behavioral problems in preschool children aged four to six years. A search of the literature was conducted in two databases, PsycInfo and Pubmed. Based on the title, abstract, and in some cases other parts of 861 articles, 7 articles were included.The seven articles are in different research areas, and each demonstrates important research approaches for the topic. An experimental case study with a learning app found benefits for young children's social behavior. On the other hand, a neuropsychological study pointed out that the social dimension of pretend play is missing when playing with a tablet. Other studies, cross-sectional and longitudinal, found certain associations between the use of digital devices and impaired social-emotional development as well as behavioral problems in preschool children and also identified mediators such as parental stress. In sum, however, the results do not provide a consistent picture of the role of smartphone use for social-emotional development and behavior problems in the preschool years. Further research that keeps pace with technology developments is needed.

In this study, we investigated the influence of negative emotions on numerosity estimation and whether this influence changes with aging during adulthood. Young and older adults were asked to estimate and compare the numerosity of collections of elements (cars or dots) with a two-digit number. Collections of elements were preceded by emotionally neutral (e.g., mushrooms) or emotionally negative (e.g., a corpse) pictures. Stimuli were easier (i.e., small-ratio) or harder (i.e., large-ratio) items. Young and older participants obtained similar numerosity estimation performance. Interestingly, participants were less accurate under negative emotions than under neutral emotions when they estimated numerosity of collections of abstract elements (i.e., dots). In contrast, participants improved their performance under negative emotions while estimating collections of non-abstract, daily-life elements (i.e., cars). These findings have important implications for furthering our understanding of the role of negative emotions in numerosity estimation and age-related differences therein.

Inferring the emotional state or the true meaning of another person's utterance is a key aspect of social cognition and critical for successful social interactions. In this study, we assess age-related differences in emotion recognition and sincere and sarcastic social exchanges in the context of cognitive and demographic factors. One hundred and eighty-seven adults ranging from middle to older adulthood completed the Mini-SEA Emotion Recognition test and Part B of The Awareness of Social Inference Test - Short Form (TASIT-S). Fluid intelligence and executive abilities were also assessed. Sex differences and the relationship with education level were also investigated. Regression models were used to assess age-related differences controlling for baseline cognitive and demographic factors. Age was negatively associated with accuracy for inferring sincere social exchanges. No differences were identified for accuracy for inferring sarcastic exchanges. Likewise, no age differences were identified for emotion recognition (Mini-SEA). Fluid intelligence was associated with accuracy for inferring sincere exchanges, but this was independent of age-related effects. A female advantage was identified for emotion recognition. Age is associated with difficulty in inferring sincere exchanges, which is not explained by fluid intelligence, verbal abstract reasoning, or auditory verbal attention. A female advantage in emotion recognition is consistent with findings reported in younger adults. Both age and sex should be considered in clinical assessments using the Mini-SEA and the TASIT-S.

Reports an error in "Emotional distractor images disrupt target processing in a graded manner" by Jonathan M. Keefe and David H. Zald (

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Outline the clinical recommendations for menopausal hormone treatment related to cognitive concerns• Debate and discuss the various research pieces on the use of menopausal hormone therapy cognitive decline, dysfunction, and dementia. Menopause has been associated with subjective cognitive dysfunction and elevated rates of depression. While menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) is Food and Drug Administration-approved for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms related to menopause, a potential role for MHT in treating and preventing cognitive decline, dysfunction, and dementia has remained unclear and a topic of continued interest and debate across decades of research. Increasing numbers of patients are seeking help for subjective cognitive decline, and those with poorer mental health are substantially more likely to perceive themselves to be at high risk of developing dementia; thus, mental health professionals are likely to encounter such patients and may be asked to provide advice concerning MHT, cognition, and indications for MHT use. Here, we synthesize the neurobiological effects of MHT, make recommendations for its use in current clinical practice in the contexts of cognitive dysfunction associated with major depressive disorder, cognitive decline, and Alzheimer's disease, and discuss the frontiers being explored by ongoing research on this topic. We conclude that MHT to improve cognitive functioning has only a few scenarios where it would be recommended and that particular caution may be warranted for carriers of the APOE ε4 allele.

There are gaps in understanding longitudinal patterns and predictors of perinatal depressive symptoms in sub-Saharan Africa. This study aimed to explore trajectories of depressive symptoms and associated factors from pregnancy to 9 months post partum among Kenyan women. In this prospective cohort study, we analysed data from the PrEP Implementation for Mothers in Antenatal Care (PrIMA) study in which HIV-negative women were enrolled in pregnancy and followed up to 9 months post partum in 20 public sector maternal-child health clinics in western Kenya. Pregnant women were eligible for enrolment if they were not infected with HIV, aged 15 years or older, and were able to provide consent. Eligible participants were screened and enrolled between Jan 15, 2018, and July 31, 2019, and followed up to 9 months post partum, with the last participant study visit conducted on Jan 15, 2021. Study nurses serially assessed depressive symptoms using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CESD-10), intimate partner violence with the Hurt, Insult, Threaten, Scream scale, and social support with the Medical Outcomes Study scale. Generalised estimating equations were used to identify correlates of moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms (CESD-10 score ≥10) and group-based trajectory modelling identified discrete trajectories of perinatal depressive symptoms. Among 4447 participants in the main PrIMA study, 3555 had complete depressive symptom data in pregnancy and depressive symptom data post partum and were included in the primary analysis. Median age was 24·0 years (IQR 21·0-28·7), 1330 (38%) participants had low social support, and 278 (8%) reported intimate partner violence in pregnancy. All participants (100%) were female and all (100%) were of African Kenyan ethnicity. Prevalence of moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms was higher in pregnancy than post partum (870 [24·5%; 95% CI 23·1-25·9] vs 597 [6·8%; 15·6-18·1]; p<0·0001). Five patterns of depressive symptoms were identified; persistent moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms in pregnancy and post partum (295 [8·3%]), moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms in pregnancy that resolved post partum (139 [3·9%]), moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms that emerged post partum (40 [1·1%]), chronically mild symptoms (2709 [76·2%]), and no depressive symptoms (372 [10·5%]). Emergent moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were associated with older age. Emergent, persistent, and resolving moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were associated with intimate partner violence during pregnancy; and persistent and resolving moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were associated with low social support and high HIV risk (all p<0·05). Moderate-to-severe depressive symptom risk was significantly increased with intimate partner violence (adjusted odds ratio 2·07 [95% CI 1·81-2·31]; p<0·0001), low social support (1·74 [1·56-1·95]; p<0·0001), and partner HIV-positive status (1·48 [1·22-1·78]; p<0·0001). 23·34% (95% CI 18·77-27·65) of cases of perinatal moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were attributable to low social support. One third of women had perinatal moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms; nearly half of these had higher severity phenotypes of resolving, persistent, and emerging moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms that might require tailored interventions. Perinatal women with comorbid psychosocial stressors such as intimate partner violence and previous pregnancy loss should be prioritised for mental health services that augment social support within routine maternal-child health care. National Institutes of Health. For the Kiswahili translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

What is the central question of this study? Shame is a form of social stress that involves internalizing social devaluations imposed by others. The aim of this study was to determine, for the first time, how acutely experienced shame impacts endothelial function. What is the main finding and its importance? Brachial artery flow-mediated dilatation, an index of endothelial function, was impaired after an intervention that acutely increased self-reported shame. This occurred without increases in cortisol or tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor binding. Frequent or prolonged shame-induced endothelial dysfunction could have important cardiovascular consequences. The objective of this study was to examine the impact of a shame induction protocol on endothelial function. Fifteen participants (n = 7 men, n = 8 women) completed both a written shame induction protocol and a control protocol on two different experimental days. Pre- and post-protocol we assessed: (1) endothelial function and arterial shear rate via a standard brachial artery reactive hyperaemia flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) test across two post-intervention time points (15 and 35 min post); (2) perceived shame via the experiential shame scale (ESS); and (3) cortisol and soluble tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor (sTNFαRII) through oral fluid analysis. Shame increased after the shame induction protocol (pre, 2.9 ± 0.6 vs. post, 3.7 ± 0.5, P < 0.001) but not the control protocol (pre, 3.0 ± 0.5 vs. post, 2.8 ± 0.5, P = 0.15; protocol by time interaction, P < 0.001). When all three time points were included in the analysis, %FMD did not change over time. Considering only the lowest post time point, %FMD decreased significantly in response to the shame protocol (pre, 4.8 ± 1.9 vs. post, 3.2 ± 1.6, P < 0.001) but not the control protocol (pre, 4.2 ± 1.8 vs. post, 3.8 ± 1.5, P = 0.45; protocol by time interaction, P = 0.035). Covariation of the shear rate stimulus for FMD did not alter the FMD results. When including both the control and shame protocols, but not the shame protocol alone, increased shame was significantly associated with decreased FMD (r = -0.37, P < 0.046). There were no significant time by protocol interaction effects for cortisol or sTNFαRII. In conclusion, temporary increases in shame might cause transient endothelial dysfunction which, if chronically repeated, could manifest as reduced vasoprotection against atherosclerosis.

Hospital staff is at high risk of developing mental health issues during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. However, the literature lacks an overall and inclusive picture of mental health problems with comprehensive analysis among hospital staff during the COVID-19 pandemic. To ascertain the prevalence of anxiety, depression and other mental health outcomes as reported in original articles among hospital staff during the COVID-19 pandemic. A PRISMA 2020 and MOOSE 2000 compliant umbrella review of published meta-analyses of observational studies evaluating the prevalence of mental health problems in hospital staff during the pandemic. Systematic searches were conducted in PubMed/Medline, CINAHL, EMBASE, and PsycINFO from December 1st, 2019, until August 13th 2021. The random effects model was used for the meta-analysis, and the I Forty-four meta-analyses from 1298 individual studies were included in the final analysis, encompassing the prevalence of 16 mental health symptoms. One-third of hospital workers reported anxiety (Prevalence: 29.9%, 95% CI:27.1% to 32.7%) and depression (Prevalence: 28.4%, 95% CI:25.5% to 31.3%) symptomatology, while about 40% (95% CI: 36.9% to 42.0%) suffered from sleeping disorders. Fear-related symptoms, reduced well-being, poor quality of life, and acute stress symptoms had the highest prevalence among hospital staff. However, the quality of evidence in these areas varied from low to very low. Nurses suffered more often from sleep problems and symptoms of anxiety and depression than doctors, whereas doctors reported a higher prevalence of acute stress and post-traumatic disorders. The burden of anxiety, depression, and sleep disorders was higher among female employees than their male counterparts. Remarkably, acute stress and insomnia affected more than half of first-line medical staff. The prevalence of mental health problems among hospital staff during the COVID-19 pandemic is generally high, with anxiety, depression and insomnia symptoms representing the most robust evidence based on a large dataset of prevalence meta-analyses. However, there is no strong confidence in the body of evidence for each outcome assessed. Not registered. The COVID-19 pandemic is having a major impact on the mental health of hospital staff. The need for support must be different for nurses and doctors @eldi12345.

Adolescent depression is a worldwide public health concern and has contributed to significant socioeconomic burden. Investigating the association between time spent on social media (TSSM) and depression may provide guidance toward the prevention and intervention of adolescent depression. However, related literature reported mixed findings in terms of the relationship between TSSM and depression in adolescents. Hence, we conducted a comprehensive dose−response meta-analysis to clarify this issue. We conducted a systematic title/abstract and topic search of the relative terms in Web of Science, PubMed, PsycINFO databases through 9 January 2022. Odd ratios (ORs) were used to examine the pooled effect size of the association between TSSM and risk of depression. Dose−response analysis was evaluated by a generalized least squares trend estimation. Twenty-one cross-sectional studies and five longitudinal studies including a total of 55,340 participants were included. Overall, more TSSM was significantly associated with a higher risk of depression symptoms (OR = 1.60, 95%CI: 1.45 to 1.75) with high heterogeneity (Q(29) = 105.9, p < 0.001; I2 = 72.6%). The association was stronger for adolescent girls (OR = 1.72, 95%CI: 1.41 to 2.09) than boys (OR = 1.20, 95%CI: 1.05 to 1.37). Five studies with seven reports were included in dose−response analysis. There was a linear dose−response association of TSSM and risk of depression. The risk of depression increased by 13% (OR = 1.13, 95%CI: 1.09 to 1.17, p < 0.001) for each hour increase in social media use in adolescents. TSSM is associated with depression in a linear dose−response and gender-specific manner, which suggests the need for better monitoring of adolescent social media use. However, motivation, content, and engagement on and exposure to social media use may also be important contributing factors, making it necessary to interpret the current findings with caution. Therefore, further research is required to clarify not only the causal link between TSSM and depression by randomized control studies but also the influence of other factors, such as active vs. passive social media use or different types of engagement or environments in which social media is used.

This review provides a summary of the current understanding of the health and well-being of the head and neck cancer (HNC) caregiver. Our goal is to understand the healthcare needs required by the caregivers of our oncologic patients, which may ultimately influence quality of care and support that cancer patients require during treatment and recovery. Independent database searches were conducted to identify articles describing HNC caregiver health and healthcare utilization. Search terms included key synonyms for head and neck cancer, caregiver, psychological stress, anxiety, depression, mental health service, and delivery of healthcare in the title/abstract. After following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) Protocol, a total of 21 studies were included. Among the 21 studies in the review, a total of 1745 caregivers were included. The average age was 57 years, the majority were female (58%-100%), and spouses/partners of the patients (77%). The literature demonstrates significant anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and physical health decline in addition to multifaceted unmet physical and mental health needs among HNC caregivers. There is no standard for examining HNC caregiver healthcare needs, while there is evidence of increased healthcare utilization. The literature is limited regarding medical burdens faced by caregivers. Future research is needed to assess the physical health and comorbidities of HNC caregivers and their engagement with the healthcare system to guide further implementation of support models to address the needs of this population.

MicroRNA-139-5p (miR-139-5p) is one of the most differentially expressed miRNAs in the brain between healthy people and depressed patients. However, its function in depression is unclear. Therefore, we investigated the function of miR-139-5p in depression. Here, miR-139-5p expression was found to be upregulated in the model group. MiR-139-5p inhibition could increase sucrose preference and decrease mice immobility time after chronic corticosterone (CORT) injection. Furthermore, compared with the antago-NC group, 3 weeks of antagomiR-139-5p treatment significantly decreased miR-139-5p level in model group hippocampus, increased sucrose preference index, reduced neuron damages, and enhanced the levels of nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), phosphorylated/total tyrosine kinase receptor B (p-TrkB/TrkB), phosphorylated/total cAMP-response element-binding protein (p-CREB/CREB) and phosphorylated/total extracellular regulated protein kinases (p-ERK/ERK). Moreover, as a potential target for miR-139-5p, NR3C1 level was reduced by miR-139-5p mimic. Altogether, by activating the BDNF-TrkB signaling pathway, miR-139-5p inhibition plays an antidepressant-like role and might serve as an effective depression target (Fig. graphical abstract).

Objectophilia (also known as objectum-sexuality) involves romantic and sexual attraction to specific objects. Objectophiles often develop deep and enduring emotional, romantic, and sexual relations with specific inanimate (concrete or abstract) objects such as trains, bridges, cars, or words. The determinants of objectophilia are poorly understood. The aim of this paper is to examine the determining factors of objectophilia. We examine four hypotheses about the determinants of objectophilia (pertaining to fetishism, synesthesia, cross-modal mental imagery, and autism) and argue that the most likely determining factors of objectophilia are the social and non-social features of autism. Future studies on the determinants of objectophilia could enhance our understanding and potentially lessen the marginalization experienced by objectophiles.

Delusions are a common transdiagnostic feature of psychotic disorders, and their treatment remains suboptimal. Despite the pressing need to better understand the nature, meaning, and course of these symptoms, research into the lived experience of delusional phenomena in psychosis is scarce. Thus, we aimed to explore the lived experience and subjective apprehension of delusions in help-seeking individuals with psychosis, regardless of diagnosis and thematic content of the delusion. In our systematic review and qualitative evidence synthesis, we searched MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Web of Science for qualitative studies published in English from database inception, with the last search on Sept 9, 2021. Grey literature search and hand-searching of relevant journals were also done. Studies were eligible if they provided an analysis of lived experience of delusions or predelusional phenomena presented from the perspective of individuals (age 14-65 years) who had developed a clinical high-risk stage of psychosis, or a diagnosable affective or non-affective psychotic disorder (as clinically defined, self-reported, or assessed within the primary study). Studies with only a subset of relevant participants were eligible only if data for the population of interest were reported separately. Studies that did not discriminate between the experience of delusion and other positive symptoms (eg, hallucinations) were included only if data for delusions were reported separately or could be extracted. First-person accounts (and author interpretations) discussing changes in the sense of self, lived world, and meaning in relation to delusions were extracted and synthesised using a novel thematic synthesis approach informed by a critical realist stance and a phenomenological theoretical framework. Analytic themes were developed into a new overarching framework for understanding the emergence of delusional phenomena. The study was registered with PROSPERO, CRD42020222104. Of the 3265 records screened, 2115 were identified after duplicate removal. Of these, 1982 were excluded after title and abstract screening and 106 after full-text eligibility assessment. Of the 27 studies entering quality assessment, 24 eligible studies were included in the qualitative evidence synthesis, representing the perspectives of 373 help-seeking individuals with lived experience of delusions in the context of psychosis. Gender was reported as male (n=210), female (n=110), transgender (n=1), or not reported (n=52). Only 13 studies reported ethnicity, with White being predominant. The age of most participants ranged from 15 to 65 years. We found no eligible studies investigating subclinical or predelusional experiences in at-risk mental state populations through qualitative methods. Most studies were undertaken in western, educated, industrialised, rich, and democratic (WEIRD) societies, and most included participants had received or self-reported a diagnosis within the schizophrenia spectrum. Studies differed in relation to whether they focused on one kind or theme of delusion or delusional phenomena more generally as a unified category. Three superordinate themes relating to experiential changes and meanings in delusion were identified: (1) a radical rearrangement of the lived world dominated by intense emotions; (2) doubting, losing, and finding oneself again within delusional realities; and (3) searching for meaning, belonging, and coherence beyond mere dysfunction. Based on the review findings and thematic synthesis, we propose the Emergence Model of Delusion to advance understanding of delusional phenomena in psychosis. Delusions are best understood as strongly individualised and inherently complex phenomena emerging from a dynamic interplay between interdependent subpersonal, personal, interpersonal, and sociocultural processes. Integrative approaches to research on delusion, which consider their potential adaptiveness and favour explanatory pluralism, might be advantageous. Effective clinical care for individuals with psychosis might need adapting to match more closely, and take account of, the subjective experience and meaning of delusions as they are lived through, which might also help redress power imbalances and enduring epistemic injustices in mental health. Priestley Scholars, Wellcome Trust.

While the clinical manifestations of myasthenia gravis (MG) are well understood, its humanistic impact is not. The objective of this systematic literature review (SLR) was to provide a comprehensive understanding of the humanistic burden of MG with regards to psychological symptoms and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) according to patients and caregivers. A systematic search was conducted on December 27, 2019, in MEDLINE and Embase to identify English-language studies that were published from January 1, 2009-December 27, 2019 and presented relevant information on the humanistic burden among adults with MG and their caregivers. Title/abstract and full-text screening was performed by two investigators, with any discrepancies resolved by a third investigator. Sixty-seven publications were included in the SLR. Compared with the general population, patients with MG experienced worse HRQoL. Studies reporting on psychological symptoms of MG, including depression, anxiety, fatigue, and sleep, were heterogeneous in terms of the scales and instruments used to assess patients, as well as the patient populations themselves. However, in general those with more severe symptoms and hospitalization days had worse depression and anxiety, and fatigue and sleep improved with disease remission and/or improvement. Scores were worse for females compared with males and where evaluated, HRQoL scores generally improved following treatment. While the literature demonstrates that symptoms associated with MG get better with disease improvement and remission, additional options in efficacious therapy that adequately address the disease-related symptoms and also improve HRQoL may contribute to beneficial outcomes in a greater number of patients with MG.

IPED Use in Recreational Sports 

Children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) generally have worse educational and psychosocial outcomes compared with their healthy peers. This can impair their ability to manage their treatment, which in turn can have long-term health consequences through to adulthood. We attempted to capture the experiences of children with CKD and to describe the perspectives of their parents and caregivers on access to educational and psychosocial support. Children with CKD (n = 34) and their caregivers (n = 62) were sampled via focus groups from pediatric hospitals in Australia, Canada, and the USA. Sixteen focus groups were convened and the transcripts were analyzed thematically. We identified four themes: disruption to self-esteem and identity (emotional turmoil of adolescence, wrestling with the sick self, powerlessness to alleviate child's suffering, balancing normality and protection); disadvantaged by lack of empathy and acceptance (alienated by ignorance, bearing the burden alone); a hidden and inaccessible support system (excluded from formal psychological support, falling behind due to being denied special considerations); and building resilience (finding partners in the journey, moving towards acceptance of the illness, re-establishing childhood). Children with CKD and their caregivers encountered many barriers in accessing psychosocial and educational support and felt extremely disempowered and isolated as a consequence. Improved availability and access to psychosocial and educational interventions are needed to improve the wellbeing and educational advancement of children with CKD. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Research in developmental psychology has robustly documented positive associations between parent-child attachment security and the child's self-regulation (SR). This study of 102 community mothers, fathers, and infants contributes to that research by examining the role of attachment security, observed at 15 months using the Attachment Q-Set, as a predictor of two distinct aspects of self-regulation at 67 months: executive functioning (SR-EF), observed in abstract Stroop-like tasks (Day/Night & Snow/Grass and Tapping), and parent-related (SR-PR), observed within the context of the parent-child relationship in response to the mother's (SR-MR) and father's (SR-FR) requests and prohibitions. We also examined child anger proneness, observed at 7 months, as a moderator of those associations. In both mother-child and father-child dyads, child security predicted SR-EF; More secure children performed better in executive functioning tasks. In mother-child dyads, security also predicted SR-MR, but the effect was qualified by the interaction of security and anger proneness, such that the effect was significant only for highly anger-prone children. The effect reflected differential susceptibility: Compared with lower-anger peers, highly anger-prone children developed worse SR-MR if their security was low, but they developed better SR-MR if their security was high. The findings highlight the benefits of a nuanced approach to self-regulation, considering child individuality as interacting with security and examining processes in both mother-child and father-child dyads.

Ehlers-Danlos syndromes (EDS) are disorders of connective tissue that lead to a wide range of clinical presentations. While we are beginning to understand the association between EDS and psychological manifestations, it is critical that we further elucidate the relationship between the two. Understanding the correlation between EDS and mental health will better ensure swift diagnosis and effective treatment for patients. This study aims to systematically examine and report the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in the EDS population. The PubMed database was searched on June 14, 2021 for articles published from January 2011 to June 2021. We included original, evidence-based, peer-reviewed journal articles in English that reported information on psychiatric disorders among EDS patients. Psychiatric disorders and psychological conditions were limited to those included in the "psychology" and "mental disorders" Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) search terms defined by the National Library of Medicine. Publications identified utilizing this search strategy by M.K. were imported into the Covidence system, where they first underwent a title and abstract screening process by three independent reviewers (M.K., K.L., H.G.). During the full-text review, two independent reviewers read the full text of the questionable articles to assess their eligibility for inclusion. Studies were excluded if they did not meet our target objective or if they were not in English or if they were opinion pieces, conference abstracts, or review articles. Data were extracted from the shortlisted studies by reviewers. During the data extraction phase, the quality and risk of publication bias were assessed by two independent reviewers utilizing the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Study Quality Assessment Tools. Any disagreements in study selection, data extraction, or quality assessment were adjudicated via discussion between the two reviewers, utilizing a third reviewer as a decider if necessary. Out of 73 articles identified, there were no duplicates. A total of 73 records were screened, but only 40 articles were assessed in full text for eligibility. A total of 23 articles were ultimately included, which collectively discussed 12,298 participants. Ten (43.5%) of the included studies were cross-sectional in design, three (13.0%) were case reports, and three (13.0%) were retrospective chart reviews. The remaining seven (30.4%) articles were either case-control, cohort, qualitative, controlled observational, or validation studies. Twelve (52.2%) of the studies reported data on depression disorders, six of which reported prevalence data. Nine (39.1%) of the studies reported data on anxiety disorders, five of which reported prevalence data. Studies that reported nonprevalence data presented odds-ratio, mean scores on psychiatric evaluations, and other correlation statistics. Psychiatric disorders that were most reported in these articles were mood disorders (n=11), anxiety disorders (n=9), and neurodevelopmental disorders (n=7). Although the reports varied, the highest psychiatric prevalence reports in EDS patients involved language disorders (63.2%), attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (52.4%), anxiety (51.2%), learning disabilities (42.4%), and depression (30.2%). Although mood disorders were cited in more articles, the highest reported prevalence was for language disorders and ADHD. This discrepancy highlights the importance of performing more research to better understand the relationship between EDS and psychiatric disorders.

Exposure to childhood adversity has been consistently associated with poor developmental outcomes, but it is unclear whether these associations vary across different forms of adversity. We examined cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between threat and deprivation with cognition, emotional processing, and psychopathology in a middle-income country. The sample consisted of 2511 children and adolescents (6-17 years old) from the Brazilian High-Risk Cohort for Mental Conditions. Parent reports on childhood adversity were used to construct adversity latent constructs. Psychopathology was measured by the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) to generate a measure of general psychopathology (the "p" factor). Executive function (EF) and attention orienting toward angry faces were assessed using cognitive tasks. All measures were acquired at two time-points 3 years apart and associations were tested using general linear models. Higher levels of psychopathology were predicted by higher levels of threat cross-sectionally and longitudinally, and by deprivation longitudinally. For EF, worse performance was associated only with deprivation at baseline and follow-up. Finally, threat was associated with attention orienting towards angry faces cross-sectionally, but neither form of adversity was associated with changes over time in attention bias. Our results suggest that threat and deprivation have differential associations with cognitive development and psychopathology. Exposure to adversity during childhood is a complex phenomenon with meaningful influences on child development. Because adversity can take many forms, dimensional models might help to disentangle the specific developmental correlates of different types of early experience. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uEU0L8exyTM.

Making the Link - An Integrative Access to Somatic Syndrome Disorder 

The present study examined the roles of word concreteness and word valence in the immediate serial recall task. Emotion words (e.g. happy) were used to investigate these effects. Participants completed study-test trials with 7-item study lists consisting of positive or negative words with either high or low concreteness (Experiments 1 and 2) and neutral (i.e. non-emotion) words with either high or low concreteness (Experiment 2). In serial recall performance, we replicated the typical item concreteness effect (concrete words are better recalled than abstract words) and obtained an item valence effect (positive/neutral words are better recalled than negative words). However, there was no concreteness × valence interaction. We conclude that both word valence and word concreteness independently contribute to the serial order retention of emotion words in the immediate serial recall task.

The potential benefits of supportive interactions on social networking sites on adolescents' mental health are promising; however, no systematic evaluation has been conducted on this topic. This review examined empirical research on the relationship between social support derived from social networking sites and adolescents' mental health both theoretically and empirically. Followed PRISMA guidelines, we conducted a systematic literature search on six English and three Chinese databases in February 2020. Four thousand one hundred and seventy-seven articles were screened first by title, then abstract, and lastly, full articles. Fourteen studies (five English and nine Chinese) were identified, with total sample of 11,616 adolescents (age: 10-19 years; females: 42.7%-56.3%). Meta-analysis showed that the correlation of online social support with self-esteem was moderate and significant (r = .29), but with depression was small and insignificant (r = -.09). Sensitivity analysis indicated that social support from acquaintances on the internet may not be as beneficial as from real-life acquaintances. Despite that there isn't enough research on other specific mental health outcomes to run a quantitative synthesis, individual studies suggest that online social support (OSS) may be associated with increased self-identity and life satisfaction, decreased loneliness and social anxiety, it also counteracts the negative effect of stress and cyberbullying on mental health. OSS might be beneficial for adolescents' mental health, especially self-esteem, although the causal relationship requires longitudinal studies to confirm, and the underlying mechanisms need further investigation.

Mental health problems are common in youth in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), including South Africa. Preventative interventions, based on cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT), delivered in schools, have been found to alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety in high income countries (HICs). However, less is known about whether youth in LMICs are able to engage with the core concepts of CBT. To explore how young people in the Western Cape, South Africa, understand key CBT concepts, such as feelings, thoughts and behaviours. We interviewed 22 young people (10-15 years of age; mean age 11.6 years;  Young people described feelings as internal, private, and should only be shared with trusted others. They also described how feelings varied, depending on the situation. They found the concept of thoughts more challenging to describe. Youth were able to say what they do when they experience unpleasant feelings, and they linked their behaviours to their feelings and thoughts. In this cultural context, our qualitative investigation found evidence that young people were able to engage with abstract concepts including feelings and to some degree, thoughts. To ensure that CBT-based interventions are developmentally appropriate and accessible, psychoeducation may help youth distinguish between thoughts, feelings and behaviours, and a focus on identifying and naming feelings may be beneficial.

Cardiovascular disease and depression are considered public health problems, depression is a risk factor for patients with heart failure (HF) for its clinical implications. The objective of this study was to describe two modalities of psychotherapeutic interventions in the approach to depression in patients with HF. We searched the specialized databases MEDLINE, PubMed, PsycINFO, Web of Science, CINAHL and Cochrane Library from 2010 to 2020. Selection criteria. Articles were selected by title and abstract., published in the last 10 years, written in Spanish or English and repeated registrations were deleted. Three authors collected information from the studies being documented. We included 4 clinical studies with 911 patients, were conducted in 4 countries in the last 10 years and implemented different methods of digital interventions and home visits, the effects of these treatments have been statistically significant to reduce self-reported depression scores in patients with HF who received psychotherapeutic intervention in any of these modalities compared to those patients who only received a treatment. Due to the limited number of studies and different methods of intervention, a standard treatment of HF depression in these care formats is not identified, so more research in this field of study is recommended.

Depression is common in persons experiencing mild cognitive impairment (MCI), with 32% (95% Cl 27, 37) overall experiencing depression. Persons with MCI who have depression have more cognitive changes compared to those without depression. To understand how we can detect depressive symptoms in persons with MCI, we undertook a systematic review to identify tools that were validated compared with a reference standard. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and Cochrane from inception to April 25, 2021, and conducted a gray literature search. Title/abstract and full-text screening were completed in duplicate. Demographic information, reference standards, prevalence, and diagnostic accuracy measures were then extracted from included articles (PROSPERO CRD: CRD42016052120). Across databases, 8,748 abstracts were generated after removing duplicates. Six hundred and sixty-five records underwent full-text screening, with six articles included for data extraction. Nine tools were identified compared to a reference standard, with multiple demonstrating a sensitivity of 100% (Brief Assessment Schedule Depression Cards, Beck Depression Inventory-II, Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia, Zung Self-Rated Depression Scale, and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory). The second highest sensitivity reported was 89% (Patient Health Questionnaire-9). Too few studies were available for a meta-analysis. Multiple depression detection tools have been examined amongst MCI outpatients, with several showing high sensitivity. However, this evidence is only present in single studies, with little demonstration of how differing MCI types affect accuracy. More research is needed to confirm the accuracy of these tools amongst persons with MCI. At this time, several tools could be suitable for use in cognitive clinics.

Research suggests associations between trait anger, hostility, and type 2 diabetes and diabetes-related complications, though evidence from longitudinal studies has not yet been synthesized. The present systematic review examined findings from longitudinal research on trait anger or hostility and the risk of incident type 2 diabetes or diabetes-related complications. The review protocol was pre-registered in PROSPERO (CRD42020216356). Electronic databases (MEDLINE, PsychINFO, Web of Science, and CINAHL) were searched for articles and abstracts published up to December 15, 2020. Peer-reviewed longitudinal studies with adult samples, with effect estimates reported for trait anger/hostility and incident diabetes or diabetes-related complications, were included. Title and abstract screening, full-text screening, data extraction, and quality assessment using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale were conducted by two independent reviewers. A narrative synthesis of the extracted data was conducted according to the Synthesis Without Meta-Analysis guidelines. Five studies (N = 155,146 participants) met the inclusion criteria. While results were mixed, our synthesis suggested an overall positive association between high trait-anger/hostility and an increased risk of incident diabetes. Only one study met the criteria for the diabetes-related complications outcome, which demonstrated a positive association between hostility and incident coronary heart disease but no significant association between hostility and incident stroke. Based on the available longitudinal evidence, trait anger and hostility are associated with an increased risk of diabetes. Longitudinal studies are needed to investigate the association between trait-anger or hostility and the risk of diabetes-related complications.

Reports an error in "Resilience predicts posttraumatic cognitions after a trauma reminder task and subsequent positive emotion induction among veterans with PTSD" by Yvette Z. Szabo, Sheila Frankfurt, A. Solomon Kurz, Austen Anderson and Adam P. McGuire ( Using a quasi-experimental design, we examined the association between trait resilience and state PTCs in veterans with PTSD (n = 47, Mage = 48.60, 91.8% male) at two points: following a written trauma narrative exposure (Time 1 [T1]), and following a subsequent positive distraction task (i.e., brief, positive video; Time 2 [T2]). After controlling for PTSD symptom severity and combat exposure, resilience was negatively associated with PTCs at T1 (ΔR2 = .19) and T2 (ΔR2 = .13). However, resilience was a poor predictor of change in PTCs from T1 to T2. We also examined the relationship between resilience and subtypes of PTCs: resilience was associated with negative views of the self (T1, ΔR2 = .24) but not negative views of the world or self-blame (T1, ΔR2s ≤ .07); these results were consistent at T2. Thus, resilience may attenuate negative trauma-related cognitions after trauma recall; however, this study was not designed to test causal pathways. Future research could examine whether resilience-building exercises reduce negative PTCs after trauma reminders among veterans. Additional research is needed to generalize to other trauma-exposed populations. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Discuss and outline the general and overlapping effects of the menstrual cycle on women's mental health. A growing body of research demonstrates menstrual cycle-dependent fluctuations in psychiatric symptoms; these fluctuations can therefore be considered as prevalent phenomena. Possible mechanisms underlying these fluctuations posit behavioral, psychological, and neuroendocrine influences. Recent reviews document cyclic exacerbation of symptoms and explore these mechanisms in the context of specific and often single disorders. The question remains, however, as to whether there are general and overlapping effects of the menstrual cycle on women's mental health. To address this gap, we synthesized the literature examining the exacerbation of a variety of psychiatric symptoms across the menstrual cycle in adult women. Results show that the premenstrual and menstrual phases are most consistently implicated in transdiagnostic symptom exacerbation. Specifically, strong evidence indicates increases in psychosis, mania, depression, suicide/suicide attempts, and alcohol use during these phases. Anxiety, stress, and binge eating appear to be elevated more generally throughout the luteal phase. The subjective effects of smoking and cocaine use are reduced during the luteal phase, but fewer data are available for other substances. Less consistent patterns are demonstrated for panic disorder, symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder, and borderline personality disorder, and it is difficult to draw conclusions for symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and trichotillomania because of the limited data. Future research should focus on developing standardized approaches to identifying menstrual cycle phases and adapting pharmacological and behavioral interventions for managing fluctuations in psychiatric symptoms across the menstrual cycle.

Reports an error in "Testing affect regulation models of drinking prior to and after drinking initiation using ecological momentary assessment" by Jimikaye B. Courtney and Michael A. Russell ( Two hundred twenty-two regularly drinking young adults (21-29 years, 84% undergraduates), completed an ecological momentary assessment (EMA) protocol for five consecutive 24-hr periods stretching across 6 days (Wednesday-Monday). Participants provided PA and NA reports three times daily and every half hour during drinking episodes. Alcohol consumption reports were provided each morning and every half hour during drinking episodes. Multi-level models showed that greater pre-drinking PA predicted higher odds of drinking, but not number of drinks consumed. Pre-drinking NA did not predict same day odds of drinking or drinks consumed. Episode-level results revealed different associations for PA and NA with drinking. Current PA did not predict drinks consumed over the next half hour; however, increased drinking was associated with greater increases in PA over the next half hour. Higher NA predicted fewer drinks consumed in the next half hour and higher odds of the end of a drinking episode; however, increased drinking was not associated with changes in NA. PA increased following drinking during episodes. Our results suggest that a focus on PA prior to episodes and a focus on NA during episodes may interrupt processes leading to heavy drinking, and may therefore aid prevention efforts. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

An international systematic review concluded that individuals with poor social health (social isolation, lack of social support or loneliness) are 30% more likely to develop coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke. Notably, the two included Australian papers reported no association between social health and CHD or stroke. We undertook a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate the association between social isolation, lack of social support and loneliness and cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence among people living in Australia and New Zealand. Four electronic databases were systematically searched for longitudinal studies published until June 2020. Two reviewers undertook title/abstract screen and one reviewer undertook full-text screen and data extraction. Quality was assessed using the Newcastle - Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale. Of the 725 unique records retrieved, five papers met our inclusion criteria. These papers reported data from three Australian longitudinal datasets, with a total of 2137 CHD and 590 stroke events recorded over follow-up periods ranging from 3 to 16 years. Reports of two CHD and two stroke outcomes were suitable for meta-analysis. The included papers reported no association between social health and incidence of CVD in all fully adjusted models and most unadjusted models. Our systematic review is inconclusive as it identified only a few studies, which relied heavily on self-reported CVD. Further studies using medical diagnosis of CVD, and assessing the potential influence of residential remoteness, are needed to better understand the relationship between social health and CVD incidence in Australia and New Zealand.

Irritability is especially pertinent to those with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) as it is highly prevalent and associated with a more severe clinical presentation and poorer longitudinal outcomes. Preliminary evidence suggests that top-down cognitive processes taking place in emotional contexts (i.e., hot executive functions) as opposed to those evoked in abstract scenarios (i.e., cool executive functions) may be relevant to the presentation of irritability in ADHD. This study explored the cognitive mechanisms underlying irritability in young people with ADHD, hypothesising that irritability would be associated with hot, but not cool, executive function impairments. Our sample included 219 individuals with ADHD. A composite irritability score was derived extracting items from a parent interview, with scores ranging from 0 to 5. Associations were investigated using linear regression analyses, between irritability and four hot tasks measuring sensitivity to risk, risk-taking behaviour following reward or punishment, acceptance of reward delay and reaction to unfair behaviour from others, and two cool tasks measuring set-shifting and motor inhibition. As hypothesised, there were no significant associations between irritability and cool executive functions in those with ADHD; however, contrary to expectations, there was also no significant evidence that hot executive functions were associated with irritability. These results, in a large well characterised sample and using a comprehensive task battery, suggest that the variation in irritability in those with ADHD may not be associated with differences in hot or cool executive function performance.

There has been a reemergence of research into the use of substances such as LSD, MDMA, and psilocybin for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. This increase in consideration toward the medicinal use of these compounds has been termed the "Psychedelic Renaissance." This article specifically explores the background of psilocybin, a psychoactive compound that is naturally derived from certain species of fungi. Pubmed was searched by one doctoral-level researcher using specific Boolean operator terms. The results were filtered by title and abstract and 76 articles were screened and analyzed in full detail. Oral psilocybin is showing itself to be clinically efficacious by producing statistically significant reductions in depression and anxiety symptoms over time versus control in multiple clinical trials. It has also been shown to reduce cigarettes per day and drinks per day in patients with substance use disorders. Thus far, there have been no significant adverse clinical events from psilocybin and there also have been no verifiable recorded deaths reported. Larger studies need to be performed before the drug can potentially become approved for use in the general population.

Waterpipe (WP) smoking is the leading tobacco use method among young adults in Lebanon. WP use is harmful, yet misperceptions about its safety exist. Implementing pictorial health warning labels (HWLs) on WP products is a promising strategy to correct this misperception. This study aimed to culturally adapt a set of 12 pictorial HWLs recently developed by an international expert panel to young adults in Lebanon. HWLs were grouped into four themes: WP health risks, WP harm to others, WP-specific harms, and WP harm compared to cigarettes. We conducted nine focus groups among WP smokers and nonsmokers (N = 77; 52% females; age 18-34 years) to explore participants' perceptions of the developed HWLs on attention, reaction (fear, avoidance), effectiveness (harm perception), and improvement (design/content, relatedness). Sessions were audio-taped, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed using directed qualitative content analysis. Emotionally provocative warnings were perceived as most effective, while symbolic and abstract warnings were found not believable. Warnings depicting visible bodily health effects and harm to babies seemed most promising. Participants were generally skeptical about Theme 4 because it might encourage switching to cigarettes. For cultural adaptation, participants recommended using shorter text with affirmative phrases, increasing the picture's size and improving their quality, adding the WP device picture to enhance HWLs' relatability, and develop testimonial messages that depict real people and stories. Results will provide Lebanon and perhaps other countries in the Eastern Mediterranean Region with evidence-based HWLs that they can further develop, test, and implement within their specific culture. Results provide Lebanon with evidence-based WP-specific pictorial HWLs that can be further developed and tested. HWLs provoking negative affect, with visible health consequences, and depicting harm to babies are promising. Participants recommended using definitive scientific claims presenting the health risks in numerical form. However, this needs to be balanced against protecting the credibility of HWLs scientifically and legally. Increasing the HWLs size and adding the WP device picture to the HWLs can enhance their relatability. Further research can help address some questions raised by this study, such as the potential of testimonial warnings that depict real people.

An intestinal stoma has severe psychosocial effects on patients. This study aimed to measure the effects of prehabilitation on stoma self-care, quality of life, anxiety, and depression levels. This study was a a randomized controlled trial. Patients were allocated into 3 groups according to enterostomal management: group A (stoma marking and postoperative education), group B (marking and pre- and postoperative education), and group C (prehabilitation group) (marking and preoperative education with introduction of the stoma appliance preoperatively and postoperative education). A stoma care follow-up form, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and a stoma-specific quality-of-life questionnaire were used for evaluation. Patients who underwent colorectal surgery and fecal diversion at the Ankara University, Ankara, Turkey, between 2011 and 2016 were included. The primary outcome was the effect of stoma prehabilitation on self-care ability. Two hundred forty patients were included in the study. The outcome of stoma self-care revealed that 24 patients (31.2%) in group A, 51 patients (78.5%) in group B, and 72 patients (94.7%) in group C could perform stoma care independently ( p < 0.001). Among patients with temporary stomas, group C had a better outcome than patients in groups A and B ( p < 0.001). There was no similar relationship among patients with permanent stomas. The prehabilitation group had fewer patients with anxiety and depression than the other groups. Among patients with temporary stomas, similar findings were found. No differences were found in either anxiety or depression among patients with permanent stomas. Stoma quality-of-life scores were significantly higher in the prehabilitation group ( p < 0.001). Among patients with temporary stomas, similar findings were found. There was no difference among those with permanent stoma. This was a single-center study of heterogeneous groups. Prehabilitation facilitates stoma self-care, decreases predisposition to anxiety and depression and improves quality of life in patients with stomas. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B918 . ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04692610. ANTECEDENTES:Una estoma intestinal ejerce serios efectos psicosociales en los pacientes. La prehabilitación tiene el potencial de superar estos problemas.OBJETIVO:Este estudio tiene como objetivo medir los efectos de la prehabilitación en el autocuidado de la estoma, la calidad de vida, la ansiedad y los niveles de depresión.DISEÑO:Este estudio fue un ensayo aleatorio controlado ( ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04692610).AJUSTE:Los pacientes fueron distribuidos en 3 grupos según su manejo enterostomal: grupos A (marcación preoperatoria de la estoma, educación posoperatoria), B (marcación preoperatoria y educación preoperatoria y posoperatoria) y C (el grupo de pre habilitación con marcación preoperatoria y educación preoperatoria con introducción del paciente al aparato ostomal de manera preoperatoria y educación posoperatoria). Para la evaluación se utilizaron el formulario de seguimiento del cuidado de la estoma, la Escala Hospitalaria de Ansiedad y Depresión y un cuestionario específico de la estoma sobre la calidad de vida.PACIENTES:Se incluyeron pacientes que fueron sometidos a cirugía colorrectal y derivación fecal en la Universidad de Ankara entre 2011 y 2016.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:El resultado principal fue el efecto de la prehabilitación de la estoma sobre la capacidad de autocuidado.RESULTADOS:Se incluyeron en este estudio 240 pacientes. Autocuidado de la estoma: Veinticuatro (31,2%), 51 (78,5%), y 72 (94,7%) pacientes de los grupos A, B, y C, respectivamente, pudieron realizar el cuidado de la estoma de forma independiente ( p < 0,001). En el análisis de subgrupos, entre los pacientes con ostomía temporal, los pacientes del grupo de prehabilitación también fueron mejores que los pacientes de los grupos B y C ( p < 0,001); sin embargo, no hubo una relación similar entre los pacientes con ostomía permanente. HADS: El grupo de prehabilitación tuvo menos pacientes con ansiedad y depresión con respecto a los demás grupos. Entre los pacientes con estomas temporales, el grupo de prehabilitación también tuvo menos pacientes con ansiedad y depresión. No hubo diferencias con la ansiedad o depresión entre los pacientes con estomas permanentes. Estoma-QoL (calidad de vida): Las puntuaciones de QoL (calidad de vida) fueron significativamente más altas en el grupo de prehabilitación ( p < 0,001). Entre los pacientes con estoma temporal, el grupo de prehabilitación fue significativamente mejor que los otros grupos ( p < 0,001). No hubo diferencias entre los portadores de estoma permanente.LIMITACIONES:Este fue un estudio de un solo centro y grupos heterogéneos.CONCLUSIÓNES:La prehabilitación facilita el autocuidado de la estoma, disminuye la predisposición a la ansiedad y la depresión y mejora la calidad de vida de los pacientes con ostomía. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B918 . (Traducción-Dr. Osvaldo Gauto )Registro de ensayos clínicos:ClinicalTrials.gov NCT04692610.

Many pediatric hospitals offer legacy interventions for families to promote coping and support grief prior to and following the death of a child. Despite this practice, parent perceptions of the value of legacy activities are not well described, and best practices for offering and creating legacy interventions remain poorly understood. To characterize bereaved parents' perspectives on the value of legacy activities; to describe parent recommendations for optimizing provision of legacy activities by child life specialists and music therapists. In this qualitative study, a purposive sample of 19 bereaved parents of children who died from cancer participated in semi-structured interviews. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed, and analyzed inductively using content analysis to identify key concepts and emerging themes. Analysis of transcripts revealed bereaved parent insights and recommendations across three core themes: 1) the value of legacy items and interventions; 2) the practical roles, uses, and functions of legacy items, and 3) best practices for offering legacy interventions. Bereaved parents sought meaning and purpose in abstract and concrete manifestations of legacy. Parents often used legacy items in specific ways to promote emotional expression and process their grief. Communication, timing, and creativity significantly influenced parent perceptions of legacy-building. Parents recommended individualized assessments to optimize provision of legacy interventions. Bereaved parents emphasized the meaningfulness of legacy-building activities and the need for an individualized approach when offering these interventions. Future research should explore the perspectives and recommendations of patients and siblings on legacy activities.

What is the central question of this study? Is there an interaction between histamine and the GABAergic system in modulation of anxiety in mice? What is the main finding and its importance? There is a synergistic anxiogenic effect between histamine and bicuculline in mice. This effect may be due to a direct or an indirect effect of the histaminergic system on the GABAergic system. It has been documented that both histaminergic and GABAergic systems participate in the neurobiology of anxiety behaviour. In the current research, we investigated the effects of the histaminergic system and GABA

There is strong evidence that suicides increase after media stories about suicides by celebrities, particularly those that highlight the suicide method (the Werther effect). Much less is known about the Papageno effect-the protective effects of media stories of hope and recovery from suicidal crises. A synthesis of the retrievable evidence is lacking. We aim to summarise findings from randomised controlled trials about the effects of stories of hope and recovery on individuals with some degree of vulnerability to suicide. For this systematic review and individual participant data meta-analysis, we searched PubMed (including MEDLINE), Scopus, Embase, PsycInfo, Web of Science, and Google Scholar published from inception to Sept 6, 2021, without language restrictions. We included trials that reported suicidal ideation (the primary outcome) or help-seeking attitudes or intentions (the secondary outcome) and tested a media narrative of hope and recovery. Studies were excluded if they did not feature a clearly positive story of hope and recovery, or had a control group exposed to suicide-related stimulus material. We contacted the lead or senior authors of all original studies to obtain participant-level data for this study. The primary analysis was restricted to individuals with some vulnerability to suicide. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for randomised trials. The study is registered with PROSPERO, number CRD42020221341. Our search yielded 7347 records. 3920 records were screened by title and abstract, and 25 full-text records assessed for eligibility. There were eight eligible studies with 2350 participants for which individual participant data were sought. For suicidal ideation, six studies met the inclusion criteria for the primary analysis. Follow-up responses were available for 569 (90%) of 633 participants who were randomised with high vulnerability (345 [55%] allocated to the intervention group and 288 [45%] to the control group). The pooled standardised mean difference (SMD) indicated a small reduction in suicidal ideation of -0·22 (95% CI -0·39 to -0·04, p=0·017; six studies) in the intervention group. For help-seeking attitudes and intentions, four studies met the inclusion criteria and follow-up data were available for 362 (86%) of 420 participants (247 [59%] allocated to the intervention group and 173 [41%] to the control group). The pooled SMD showed no evidence of a difference between the groups (SMD=0·14, 95% CI -0·15 to 0·43, p=0·35; four studies). Low levels of cross-study heterogeneity effects were observed for both analyses (I Media narratives of hope and recovery from suicidal crises appear to have a beneficial effect on suicidal ideation in individuals with some vulnerability, but there is insufficient evidence regarding help-seeking attitudes and intentions. These findings provide new evidence about narratives for suicide prevention. None.

To investigate whether working with intrusive images and the use of imagery processes would be beneficial to treating depression, an imagery-based intervention (imagery rescripting, IR) was compared with a more commonly used verbal-based technique (cognitive restructuring, CR). The study aimed not only to test the efficacy of IR as a brief modular treatment for depression, but to explore whether such experiential use of imagery would alleviate the abstract-evaluative, verbal processes of rumination and worry. Forty-one participants diagnosed with clinical depression and who also reported intrusive images underwent one assessment session of imagery properties before they were randomly assigned to an IR group or to an active control group of CR. They then received three weekly sessions of treatment, and outcomes were measured before and after treatment, as well as at two-month follow-up. The results showed that IR was equally if not more effective than CR in alleviating depression. Significant differential reductions in rumination, worry and experiential avoidance between treatments added support to the technique's experiential nature, and possibly, a defusing out of an abstract-evaluative mode of processing. Only self-report measures were used, with a small number of treatment sessions by one clinician. The findings support the therapeutic potential of imagery modalities in the treatment of depression, which compared to cognitive restructuring, appear to bring about more significant emotional change with time (clinical trial registered at the Joint CUHK-NTEC CREC Ref. No. 2015.458).

The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemics has dramatically affected people's lives. Among newly established practices, it has likely enriched our conceptual representations with new components. We tested this by asking Italian participants during the first lockdown to rate a set of diverse words on several crucial dimensions. We found concepts are organized along a main axis opposing internal and external grounding, with fine-grained distinctions within the two categories underlining the role of emotions. We also show through a comparison with existing data that Covid-19 impacted the organization of conceptual representations. For instance, subclasses of abstract concepts that are usually distinct converge into a unitary group, characterized by emotions and internal grounding. Additionally, we found institutional and Covid-19 related concepts, for which participants felt more the need for others to understand the meaning, clustered together. Our results show that the spread of Covid-19 has simultaneously changed our lives and shaped our conceptual representations.

Major depressive disorder is the most common neuropsychiatric comorbidity of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and women are more frequently affected in the general population and among those with HIV. The rate of depression in HIV is three times higher than the general population. Differences in biomarkers in neuroendocrine and inflammatory pathways are one possible explanation for the increased prevalence of depression in individuals with HIV, especially biological women. Therefore, we aimed to perform a systematic review identifying differences in neuroendocrine factors leading to depression in men versus women with HIV. A comprehensive search of 8 databases was performed, followed by title and abstract screening and later full-text screening by two independent researchers. A risk of bias assessment was completed. Twenty-six full-text articles were included in the review. Significant correlations between depression and neuroendocrine marker levels were found for cortisol (both sexes), testosterone (only in men), oxytocin (only tested in women), and estradiol (only in women). No significant correlation between depression and hormone level was found for prolactin, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEAS), or sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG). Nearly all studies included only men or women and did not directly compare neuroendocrine markers between the two sexes. One study found that the correlation between cortisol levels and depression scores was stronger in women than men. Neuroendocrine systems are highly active in the brain and important in the development and persistence of mental illness. Given that HIV can, directly and indirectly, impact hormone signaling, it is likely contributing to the high rate of depression in individuals with HIV. However, few studies explore neuroactive hormones in depression and HIV, nor how this connection may differ between the sexes. More high-quality research is needed in this area to explore the link further and inform possible avenues of treatment.

What is the topic of this review? More than half of all pregnancies in the UK are exposed to adversity linked to increased problems in pregnancy for mothers and adverse outcomes for their children, but we do not know the mechanism(s) underpinning these relationships. What advances does it highlight? Studies in mice prove that placental endocrine insufficiency driven by genetic manipulation of imprinted genes in the offspring can concurrently drive fetal growth restriction, alterations in maternal caregiving and aberrant behaviour in wild-type offspring exposed to an adverse environment. This suggests that placental endocrine insufficiency might contribute to the co-morbidity of low birth weight, maternal depression and neurodevelopmental disorders observed in human populations. Prenatal adversity, which is estimated to impact more than half of all pregnancies in the UK, compromises fetal growth and increases the chances of stillbirth, prematurity and infant mortality. Beyond these immediate and highly visible problems, infants that survive carry the invisible burden of increased risk of some of the most common and pervasive diseases that impact human populations. In utero exposure to depression and anxiety is one adversity that has been linked to these poorer outcomes, suggesting that maternal mood disorders drive the outcomes. However, recent studies in animal models suggest that both the maternal mood disorders and the detrimental outcomes for children could be the result of the same underlying placental pathology. In these studies, genetically wild-type rodent mothers exposed to placental endocrine insufficiency engaged in less pup-focused behaviours and less self-care. Genetically wild-type rodent offspring raised in this abnormal environment exhibited increased anxiety-like behaviours, with male offspring additionally exhibiting deficits in cognition and atypical social behaviour, with some evidence of depressive-like symptoms. This work establishes experimentally that placental endocrine insufficiency alone is sufficient to drive atypical behaviour in both mothers and their offspring. Although there are some data to suggest that this phenomenon is relevant to human pregnancy, considerably more work is required.

This article explores the relationship between metaphors and emotion in the context of adolescent distress and psychotherapeutic treatment. Drawing on data from an ethnographic study of Mexican American adolescents receiving outpatient treatment for a variety of emotional and behavioral problems, the article examines what I call "prescribed" metaphors deployed in mainstream, manualized child and adolescent Cognitive Behavioral Therapies commonly used in mainstream clinical contexts. I explore the models of emotion communicated to youth by one such metaphor, youth responses to this metaphor, and the potential implications for young people as they take up the underlying models and affective practices embedded in the metaphor. Specifically, I examine how youth respond to messages about emotion metacognition and emotion regulation embedded in a metaphor that equates feelings with temperatures that can be monitored and objectively measured. I find that youth are at once convinced that abstract knowledge about internal states is inherently valuable because it is linked to desired forms of personhood, but also concerned about the limits of technical metaphors to capture aspects of lived experience and the flattening and homogenization of affect that might accompany the practices such metaphors help to enact. I analyze alternative interpretations of prescribed metaphors as well as the spontaneous metaphors used by youth to talk about their emotions and experiences of distress, in an effort to think through the politics and poetics of emotion metaphors in the context of an evidence-based psychotherapy for young people.

Although available diagnostic criteria are intelligible, combination of OAB and anxiety in the same patient presents a perfect example of medical causality dilemma, commonly stated as the question: "which came first: the chicken or the egg?". The aim of this review article is to address available insights in bidirectional association between OAB and anxiety. In this review article, we included different types of studies whose results are presented as relative risk (RR) or odds ratio (OR) with a 95% accuracy. A literature search was conducted with the use of the PubMed and EMBASE electronic databases focusing on identifying articles published in English between 1990 and 2020. The electronic searches, after duplicate records removal, provided a total of 126 citations. Of these, 107 were excluded after title/abstract screening (not relevant to the review). We examined the full text of 19 publications remaining to summarize possible mechanisms between OAB and anxiety. According to examined literature, our result synthesis provides insight in epidemiology, pathophysiology, diagnostic and therapeutic approach of both conditions. Temporal relationship between OAB and anxiety is not very well documented because available longitudinal cohort studies are limited. The limitation of the published literature is that most were population-based symptom studies demonstrating high risk of bias. Although data from analysed studies suggest that anxiety and OAB and anxiety might be casually related, studies provided on clinical population are warranted. In addition to the traditional urologic factors, we recommend that psychosocial factors such as anxiety should be assessed routinely in patients with OAB.

Many situations in life (such as considering which stock to invest in, or which people to befriend) require averaging across series of values. Here, we examined predictions derived from construal level theory, and tested whether abstract compared with concrete thinking facilitates the process of aggregating values into a unified summary representation. In four experiments, participants were induced to think more abstractly (vs. concretely) and performed different variations of an averaging task with numerical values (Experiments 1-2 and 4), and emotional faces (Experiment 3). We found that the induction of abstract, compared with concrete thinking, improved aggregation accuracy (Experiments 1-3), but did not improve memory for specific items (Experiment 4). In particular, in concrete thinking, averaging was characterized by increased regression toward the mean and lower signal-to-noise ratio, compared with abstract thinking. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

An essential aspect of human cognition is supported by a rich reservoir of abstract concepts without tangible external referents (e.g., "honor", "relationship", "direction"). While decades of research showed that the neural organization of conceptual knowledge referring to concrete words respects domains of evolutionary salience and sensorimotor attributes, the organization principles of abstract word meanings are poorly understood. Here, we provide neuropsychological evidence for a domain (sociality) and attribute (emotion) structure in abstract word processing. Testing 34 brain-damaged patients on a word-semantic judgment task, we observed double dissociations between social and nonsocial words and a single dissociation of sparing of emotional (relative to non-emotional) words. The lesion profiles of patients with specific dissociations suggest potential neural correlates positively or negatively associated with each dimension. These results unravel a general domain-attribute architecture of word meanings and highlight the roles of the social domain and the emotional attribute in the non-object semantic space.

Reports an error in "Children's self-blame appraisals about their mothers' depressive symptoms and risk for internalizing symptoms" by Chrystyna D. Kouros, Sharyl E. Wee, Chelsea N. Carson and Naomi V. Ekas (

Individuals with dyslexia struggle at explaining what it is like to have dyslexia and how they perceive letters and words differently. This led the designer Daniel Britton to create a font that aims to simulate the perceptual experience of how effortful reading can be for individuals with dyslexia (http://danielbritton.info/dyslexia). This font removes forty percent of each character stroke with the aim of increasing reading effort, and in turn empathy and understanding for individuals with dyslexia. However, its efficacy has not yet been empirically tested. In the present study, we compared participants without dyslexia reading texts in the dyslexia simulation font to a group of individuals with dyslexia reading the same texts in Times New Roman font. Results suggest that the simulation font amplifies the struggle of reading, surpassing that experienced by adults with dyslexia-as reflected in increased reading time and overall number of eye movements in the majority of typical readers reading in the simulation font. Future research could compare the performance of the Daniel Britton simulation font against a sample of beginning readers with dyslexia as well as seek to design and empirically test an adapted simulation font with an increased preserved percentage of letter strokes [Correction added on 10 December 2021, after initial online publication. Abstract has been added].

In order to decide between avoiding pain or pursuing competing rewards, pain must be assigned an abstract value that can be traded against that of competing goods. To assess the relationship between subjectively perceived pain and its value, we conducted an experiment where participants had to accept or decline different intensities of painful electric shocks in exchange of monetary rewards. Participants (n = 90) were divided into three groups that were exposed to different distributions of monetary rewards. Monetary offers ranged linearly from $0 to $5 or $10 in groups 1 and 2, respectively, and exponentially from $0 to $5 in group 3. Pain offers ranged from pain detection to pain tolerance thresholds. The value of pain was assessed by identifying the indifference points corresponding to a 50% chance of accepting a certain level of pain for a given monetary reward. The value of pain increased quadratically as a function of the anticipated pain intensity and was found to be relative to the mean and standard deviation of monetary offers. Moreover, decision times increased as a function of the intensity of accepted painful stimulations. Finally, inter-individual differences in psychological traits related to harm avoidance and persistence influenced the value of pain. This is the first demonstration that the value of pain follows a curvilinear function and is relative to the mean and standard deviation of competing monetary rewards. These new observations significantly contribute to our understanding of how pain is assigned value when making decisions between avoiding pain and obtaining rewards. This work provides a description of the pain value function indicating how much people are willing to pay to avoid different intensities of pain. We found that the function was curvilinear, suggesting that the same unit of subjective pain has more value in the high vs. low pain range. Moreover, the pain value was influenced by the experimental manipulation of the rewards distribution and of the inter-individual differences in harm avoidance and persistence. Altogether, the present study provides a detailed account of how subjectively experienced pain is assigned value.

To investigate whether users of hormonal contraceptives (HCs) are at increased risk of depression compared with non-users. Register-based cohort study. Sweden. Women aged 15-25 years between 2010 and 2017 with no prior antidepressant treatment, psychiatric diagnose or contraindication for HCs (n = 739 585). Women with a prescription of HC were identified via the Swedish Prescribed Drug Register (SPDR). Relative risks (RRs) for first depression diagnosis in current HC-users compared with non-users were modelled by Poisson regression. Adjustments included age, medical indication for HC-use and parental history of mental disorders, among others. Depression, captured by a redeemed prescription of antidepressant treatment, or a first depression diagnosis in the SPDR and the National Patient Register. Compared with non-users, women on combined oral contraceptives (COCs) and oral progestogen-only products had lower or no increased risk of depression, relative risk (RR) 0.89 (95% CI 0.87-0.91) and 1.03 (95% CI 0.99-1.06) after adjustments, respectively. Age-stratified analyses demonstrated that COC use in adolescents conferred no increase in risk (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.93-0.98), whereas use of progestogen-only pills (RR 1.13, 95% CI 1.07-1.19), contraceptive patch/vaginal ring (RR 1.43, 95% CI 1.30-1.58), implant (RR 1.38, 95% CI 1.30-1.45) or a levonorgestrel intrauterine device (RR 1.59, 95% CI 1.46-1.73) were associated with increased risks. This study did not find any association between use of COCs, which is the dominating HC in first time users, and depression. Non-oral products were associated with increased risks. Residual confounding must be addressed in the interpretation of the results. There is no association between combined hormonal contraceptives and depression.

Diabetes is associated with a number of mental health consequences, including enhanced risk of depression and anxiety, as well as decreased quality of life, and vitamin D deficiency is considered to be one of the factors that influence these outcomes in diabetic patients. The aim of the present study was to conduct a systematic review of the literature presenting the data regarding the influence of vitamin D supplementation on mental health in diabetic adults. This study was conducted in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines and registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) database (Registration number CRD42020155779). A systematic search of the PubMed and Web of Science databases was performed, and the intervention studies published until September 2021 were included in the review. The human studies were included if an adult sample of diabetic individuals received vitamin D supplementation during the intervention and its effect on any mental health aspect was assessed, but studies presenting the influence of combined supplementation of multiple nutrients were excluded. After removing duplicate records, a total of 8514 publications were screened and assessed independently by two researchers, based on their title, abstract, and full text. Finally, six studies were included in the current systematic review, and the risk of bias was evaluated using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS). The included studies analyzed the influence of a specific dose of vitamin D, or different doses of vitamin D, or compared the results of supplementation with a specific dose of vitamin D against the placebo group. The supplementation was performed for at least 12 weeks. The mental health outcomes analyzed in these studies included health-related quality of life, depression, anxiety, stress, and general mental health status of adult diabetic patients. The results of the majority of the studies confirmed the positive influence of vitamin D supplementation on the mental health of diabetic individuals. Those studies that analyzed the influence of vitamin D supplementation on depression and anxiety established the beneficial effect of the vitamin. In some studies, the influence of vitamin D supplementation on the health-related quality of life was not considered unless combined with mindfulness training. However, it must be emphasized that different dosage regimens and intervention periods were followed in the reviewed studies, and only a small number of studies were randomized against placebo, which should be considered as a limitation of the present study. The findings of the conducted systematic review demonstrated the positive influence of vitamin D supplementation on the mental health of diabetic patients, which was proved for anxiety and depression, but in the case of health-related quality of life, the positive effect was observed only when the intervention included mindfulness training. These outcomes suggest that supplementation should be recommended to improve the vitamin D status and the mental health of patients in this group.

Behavioral responses to novelty, including fear and subsequent avoidance of novel stimuli, i.e., neophobia, determine how animals interact with their environment. Neophobia aids in navigating risk and impacts on adaptability and survival. There is variation within and between individuals and species; however, lack of large-scale, comparative studies critically limits investigation of the socio-ecological drivers of neophobia. In this study, we tested responses to novel objects and food (alongside familiar food) versus a baseline (familiar food alone) in 10 corvid species (241 subjects) across 10 labs worldwide. There were species differences in the latency to touch familiar food in the novel object and novel food conditions relative to the baseline. Four of seven socio-ecological factors influenced object neophobia: (1) use of urban habitat (versus not), (2) territorial pair versus family group sociality, (3) large versus small maximum flock size, and (4) moderate versus specialized caching (whereas range, hunting live animals, and genus did not), while only maximum flock size influenced food neophobia. We found that, overall, individuals were temporally and contextually repeatable (i.e., consistent) in their novelty responses in all conditions, indicating neophobia is a stable behavioral trait. With this study, we have established a network of corvid researchers, demonstrating potential for further collaboration to explore the evolution of cognition in corvids and other bird species. These novel findings enable us, for the first time in corvids, to identify the socio-ecological correlates of neophobia and grant insight into specific elements that drive higher neophobic responses in this avian family group. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

This review provides an estimate of the global prevalence of depression and anxiety symptoms among doctors, based on analysis of evidence from the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. A systematic review was conducted to identify suitable studies. Final searches were conducted on 3rd March 2021. Papers were initially screened by title and abstract, based on pre-agreed inclusion criteria, followed by full-text review of eligible studies. Risk of bias was assessed using the Joanna Briggs Checklist for Prevalence Studies. Data from studies rated as low or medium risk of bias were pooled using a random-effects meta-analysis. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were conducted to explore heterogeneity. Fifty-five studies were included after full-text review. Of these, thirty studies were assessed as low or medium risk of bias and were included in primary analyses. These comprised twenty-six studies of depression (31,447 participants) and thirty studies of anxiety (33,281 participants). Pooled prevalence of depression and anxiety was 20.5% (95% CI 16.0%-25.3%) and 25.8% (95% CI 20.4%-31.5%) respectively. Evidence from the first year of the pandemic suggests that a significant proportion of doctors are experiencing high levels of symptoms of depression and anxiety, although not conclusively more so than pre-pandemic levels. Differences in study methodology and variation in job demands may account for some of the observed heterogeneity. Findings must be interpreted with caution due to the high heterogeneity and moderate risk of bias evident in the majority of included studies.

To examine the nature, quality, and effectiveness of Play Therapy (PT) interventions in children with chronic health conditions (CHC) and to identify the measures used to evaluate psychosocial outcomes. Systematic searches of the databases: Medline complete, PsycINFO, CINHAL, Embase and Sport Discuss were conducted to identify peer reviewed papers reporting original studies published in English between January1990 - April 2020. Studies testing any type of PT or Filial Therapy (FT) with children with CHC aged between 3 and 11 years, or their parents if FT, where outcomes were primarily psychosocial were eligible. The title and abstract search identified 6742 papers and six studies (three each for PT and FT) including two randomized control trials were identified as eligible for review. All FT interventions involved group-based training, while only one PT study used a group format. Outcomes for children included emotional and behavioural issues including anxiety, depression, and self-concept and while constructs were broadly comparable across studies, the measures used differed. Sample size ranged between 4 and 58. Two studies suggested positive impact of PT on depression, with one finding improvements in self-concept. Three studies with sample sizes less than 30 found no effect. With varied study designs, and small sample sizes, current evidence regarding the effectiveness of PT in improving psychosocial outcomes for children with chronic illnesses is inconclusive. The field should move from small underpowered studies to randomized trials with comprehensive protocols and larger sample sizes.

Cognitive impairment and depression are common mental health problems in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients with maintenance hemodialysis (MHD). Previous studies have proven that cognitive impairment and depression were risk factors for poor prognosis in MHD patients. However, the related factors of cognitive function and the association between cognitive impairment and depression in MHD patients are still unclear. The purpose of this study is to explore the related factors affecting the cognitive function of MHD patients and evaluate the relationship between cognitive function and depression in MHD patients. This single-center, cross-sectional study enrolled 160 MHD patients. Cognitive function and depressive symptoms were measured using Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), respectively. Cognitive impairment was detected in 58.1% of 160 MHD patients. Multivariate linear regression analysis showed that age, level of education and homocysteine (HCY) were independent influencing factors of MoCA scores and the scores of attention and abstract thinking were independently correlated with PHQ-9 score after adjusting for confounding factors CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicated that age, level of education and HCY were independently associated with cognitive function, and attention and abstract thinking could independently affect depressive symptoms in MHD patients.

Pain is a common symptom in cancer patients. Hypnosis is considered one of the most recognized non-pharmacological techniques in pain management. In oncology, this technique can be used as a complementary treatment to reduce the level of pain and anxiety. The objective of this study is to systematically review and evaluate controlled clinical trials (CCTs) examining the effect of hypnosis on the intensity of pain, and anxiety in cancer patients. A systematic review was conducted according to the recommendations of the "Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses" (PRISMA). The Cochrane systematic review database, the abstract databases, Scopus, PubMed, Google Scholar, and Cochrane Library have been systematically reviewed from 2005 to 2018. Eleven CCT with a total of 1182 participants met the inclusion criteria and were included in this review. The participants were mainly women ( Evidence suggests promising results of hypnosis on the management of pain, and anxiety levels in the vast majority of cancer patients. Therefore, because of the exploratory design and high risk of bias, the effectiveness of hypnosis or hypnotherapy in reducing pain and anxiety levels remains unclear. There is a need for more rigorous randomized controlled trials (RCTs).

No abstract Keywords.

Visual Emotion Analysis (VEA) aims at finding out how people feel emotionally towards different visual stimuli, which has attracted great attention recently with the prevalence of sharing images on social networks. Since human emotion involves a highly complex and abstract cognitive process, it is difficult to infer visual emotions directly from holistic or regional features in affective images. It has been demonstrated in psychology that visual emotions are evoked by the interactions between objects as well as the interactions between objects and scenes within an image. Inspired by this, we propose a novel Scene-Object interreLated Visual Emotion Reasoning network (SOLVER) to predict emotions from images. To mine the emotional relationships between distinct objects, we first build up an Emotion Graph based on semantic concepts and visual features. Then, we conduct reasoning on the Emotion Graph using Graph Convolutional Network (GCN), yielding emotion-enhanced object features. We also design a Scene-Object Fusion Module to integrate scenes and objects, which exploits scene features to guide the fusion process of object features with the proposed scene-based attention mechanism. Extensive experiments and comparisons are conducted on eight public visual emotion datasets, and the results demonstrate that the proposed SOLVER consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. Ablation studies verify the effectiveness of our method and visualizations prove its interpretability, which also bring new insight to explore the mysteries in VEA. Notably, we further discuss SOLVER on three other potential datasets with extended experiments, where we validate the robustness of our method and notice some limitations of it.

In patients with brain lesion, awareness of cognitive deficits is an important aspect of disease awareness. Glioblastoma (GBM) and anaplastic astrocytoma (AA) can cause cognitive deficits, but, to date, awareness of these deficits has not been documented. This study aimed to test cognitive awareness in these patients after the end of treatment. Fifty patients with GBM or AA were assessed using the Multiple Ability Self-Report Questionnaire (MASQ), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Self Rating Depression Scale (SRDS), and memory, attention, mental speed, abstract reasoning, and flexibility neuropsychological tests. Cognitive awareness was calculated as the concordance between the composite score of neuropsychological performance (PEC) and the total MASQ score. The controls were 48 healthy subjects. Analysis of variance and regression analysis compared subject groups and explored variables predicting perceived abilities. Patients with GBM or AA showed similar attention, memory, and executive deficits compared with controls. Cognitive awareness was fair/full in 64% of patients. In the entire patients group, the worst MASQ scores were associated with neuropsychological deficits, anxiety, depression, and glioma location in the right hemisphere . In patients with fair/full awareness, MASQ scores were related to affective status and neuropsychological performance, whereas, in those with scarce/no awareness, they were related only to affective status. After treatment, many patients with GBM or AA are aware of their cognitive deficits. Anxiety, depression, and right hemisphere tumour exacerbate the perceived difficulties. This neurocognitive approach expands the behavioural phenotypes of high-grade gliomas and may have therapeutic implications over the course of the disease.

Abstract and concrete modes of rumination may be associated with different mental health outcomes; whereby concrete rumination strategies increase the individual's tendency to seek solutions to problems and thus leading to significant improvements in the mood state as well as reductions in the intensity of ruminative thoughts. However, related studies also are suggestive of other variables that are potentially effective in the outcome of abstract and concrete processing. The current study aimed to examine how abstract and concrete processing are associated with state rumination and explore the role of cognitive flexibility in this relationship. A total of 111 (78 female) participants were assessed for state rumination prior and post induction of abstract versus concrete processing. Although all participants reported higher levels of state rumination following both processing inductions, participants that were instructed to engage in abstract processing reported higher levels of state rumination as opposed to concrete processing group. Moreover, participants with lower levels of cognitive flexibility reported significant increases in state rumination following the manipulation, independent of type of processing induction. The impact of the manipulation was assessed only via the BSRI and lacks physiological assessment of arousal levels of participants. Clinical implications that involve concrete processing and CF ability trainings may be beneficial for the management of state rumination.

thinking is a cognitive process that involves the assimilation of concepts reduced from diffuse sensory input, organized, and interpreted in a manner beyond the obvious. There are multiple facets by which abstraction is measured that include semantic, visual-spatial and social comprehension. This study examined the prevalence and course of abstract and concrete responses to semantic proverbs and aberrant abstraction (composite score of semantic, visual-spatial, and social comprehension) over 20 years in 352 participants diagnosed with schizophrenia, affective psychosis, and unipolar non-psychotic depression. We utilized linear models, two-way ANOVA and contrasts to compare groups and change over time. Linear models with Generalized Estimation Equation (GEE) to determine association. Our findings show that regardless of diagnosis, semantic proverb interpretation improves over time. Participants with schizophrenia give more concrete responses to proverbs when compared to affective psychosis and unipolar depressed without psychosis. We also show that the underlying structure of concretism encompasses increased conceptual overinclusion at index hospitalization and idiosyncratic associations at follow-up; whereas, abstract thinking overtime encompasses increased visual-spatial abstraction at index and rich associations with increased social comprehension scores at follow-up. Regardless of diagnosis, premorbid functioning, descriptive characteristics, and IQ were not associated with aberrant abstraction. Delusions are highly and positively related to aberrant abstraction scores, while hallucinations are mildly and positively related to this score. Lastly, our data point to the importance of examining the underlying interconnected structures of 'established' constructs vis-à-vis mixed methods to provide a description of the rich interior world that may not always map onto current quantitative measures.

Acute and chronic psychological distress are prevalent during adolescence and can have negative impacts on adolescents in all life domains. The aim of this systematic review was to appraise the use of virtual reality (VR) interventions to manage symptoms of psychological distress symptoms among adolescents. MEDLINE, PubMed, PsycINFO, and Scopus databases were searched up to June 2020. Available citations were de-duplicated and screened by two authors using title and abstract information. A total of 301 articles were retained for full-text evaluation next to eligibility criteria. Empirical studies of all designs and comparator groups were included if these appraised the impact of an immersive VR intervention on any standardized measure indicative of psychological distress in an adolescent sample. Data were extracted into a standardized coding sheet. Results were tabulated and discussed with a narrative synthesis due to the heterogeneity between studies. A total of seven studies met inclusion criteria. There were four randomized controlled trials and three uncontrolled pilot studies on new VR interventions. Distress-related issues included: state-anxiety, venepuncture, risk taking, public speaking anxiety, social anxiety disorder, sexual victimization, and chemotherapy administration. All studies reported significant changes on outcome measures after VR treatment. Six studies reported small-to-large reductions in symptoms. The average attrition rate was 3.6 percent during the active VR treatment phase. Treatment acceptability was high in the studies that assessed user engagement factors. The VR technology can provide a safe, rapidly efficacious, and acceptable treatment modality for managing psychological distress in several key adolescent populations.

Climacteric depression and anxiety 

To summarise the evidence relating to the prevalence of anxiety and depression among healthcare workers (HCWs) during the COVID-19 pandemic. An umbrella review of systematic reviews was undertaken using the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) methods. The Cochrane database of systematic reviews, JBI Evidence Synthesis, MEDLINE, Web of Science, PsycINFO, Embase and CINAHL were searched in March 2021 for reviews published in English. Systematic reviews reporting the prevalence of anxiety and depression among HCWs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Two researchers screened each abstract and independently reviewed full text articles. Study quality was assessed using the JBI critical appraisal tool for systematic reviews, and the degree of overlap in primary studies was calculated. Ten systematic reviews (100 unique studies), including 169 157 HCWs from 35 countries were included. The prevalence of anxiety among all HCWs ranged from 22.2% (95% CI 21.3% to 23.1%) to 33.0% (95% CI 31.9% to 34.1%). The prevalence of anxiety among physicians (n=5820) was reported to be between 17% and 19.8% and for nurses (n=14 938) between 22.8% and 27%. The prevalence of depression among all HCWs ranged from 17.9% (95% CI 17.1% to 18.8%) to 36% (95% CI 34.9% to 37.1%). The prevalence of depression among physicians (n=643) and nurses (n=8063) was reported to be 40.4% and 28%, respectively. There is wide variation evident in the presence of anxiety and depression among HCWs. In particular, the prevalence of depression among physicians was high. Strategies to reduce the incidence of anxiety and depression are urgently required. CRD42021238960.

Persons with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer dementia (AD) often experience gait and balance disturbances and depressive symptoms alongside their cognitive impairment. The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between mobility and depressive symptoms in community-dwelling persons with MCI and mild to moderate AD. Ninety-nine participants with MCI and AD from the memory clinic at Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål, Norway, were included. The Balance Evaluation Systems Test (BESTest), 10-m walk test regular (gait speed), and dual task (naming animals, dual-task cost in percent) were used to assess mobility. The Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia, with validated cut-off 5/6 points, was used to assess presence of depressive symptoms. Multiple regression analysis was used to explore the relationship between mobility (3 separate models) and depressive symptoms, controlled for demographic factors, comorbidity, and Mini-Mental State Examination. One-third of the participants had depressive symptoms, mean (SD) gait speed was 1.09 (0.3) m/s, and median (interquartile range) BESTest percent score was 81.5 (17.6). No statistically significant associations were found between depression and BESTest, gait speed or dual-task cost, neither in the simple models (P = 0.15-0.85), nor in the 3 multivariate models (P = 0.57-0.69). In this study, we found no associations between mobility and depressive symptoms in persons with MCI and AD recruited at a memory clinic. Few participants had major symptoms of depression, which may have influenced the results. Longitudinal studies are needed to explore the long-time associations between mobility and depression.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see the Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A366).

Visual art offers cognitive neuroscience an opportunity to study how subjective value is constructed from representations supported by multiple neural systems. A surprising finding in aesthetic judgment research is the functional activation of motor areas in response to static, abstract stimuli, like paintings, which has been hypothesized to reflect embodied simulations of artists' painting movements, or preparatory approach-avoidance responses to liked and disliked artworks. However, whether this motor involvement functionally contributes to aesthetic appreciation has not been addressed. Here, we examined the aesthetic experiences of patients with motor dysfunction. Forty-three people with Parkinson disease and 40 controls made motion and aesthetics judgments of high-motion Jackson Pollock paintings and low-motion Piet Mondrian paintings. People with Parkinson disease demonstrated stable and internally consistent preferences for abstract art, but their perception of movement in the paintings was significantly lower than controls in both conditions. The patients also demonstrated enhanced preferences for high-motion art and an altered relationship between motion and aesthetic appreciation. Our results do not accord well with a straightforward embodied simulation account of aesthetic experiences, because artworks that did not include visual traces of the artist's actions were still experienced as lower in motion by Parkinson patients. We suggest that the motor system may be involved in integrating low-level visual features to form abstract representations of movement rather than simulations of specific bodily actions. Overall, we find support for hypotheses linking motor responses and aesthetic appreciation and show that altered neural functioning changes the way art is perceived and valued.

This video is a proof of concept that ideas from embodied cognition can be used to understand how the brain and cognitive systems deal with very abstract concepts. The video teaches regression to the mean using three ideas. The first idea is directly related to embodied cognition: abstract concepts are grounded in perceptual, motor, and emotional systems by using successive levels of grounding within an extended procedure. The second idea is that this sort of grounding often requires formal instruction: a teacher needs to develop the sequence in which the concepts are grounded and the methods of grounding. That is, at least some abstract concepts are unlikely to be learned through an individual's unstructured interactions with the world. The third idea is that humans are hyper-social, thus making formal instruction possible. To the extent that the viewer learns the abstract concept of regression to the mean, then the video demonstrates how an embodied theory of abstract concepts could work.

While most patients with depression respond to pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy, about one-third will present treatment resistance to these interventions. For patients with treatment-resistant depression (TRD), invasive neurostimulation therapies such as vagus nerve stimulation, deep brain stimulation, and epidural cortical stimulation may be considered. We performed a narrative review of the published literature to identify papers discussing clinical studies with invasive neurostimulation therapies for TRD. After a database search and title and abstract screening, relevant English-language articles were analyzed. Vagus nerve stimulation, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a TRD treatment, may take several months to show therapeutic benefits, and the average response rate varies from 15.2-83%. Deep brain stimulation studies have shown encouraging results, including rapid response rates (> 30%), despite conflicting findings from randomized controlled trials. Several brain regions, such as the subcallosal-cingulate gyrus, nucleus accumbens, ventral capsule/ventral striatum, anterior limb of the internal capsule, medial-forebrain bundle, lateral habenula, inferior-thalamic peduncle, and the bed-nucleus of the stria terminalis have been identified as key targets for TRD management. Epidural cortical stimulation, an invasive intervention with few reported cases, showed positive results (40-60% response), although more extensive trials are needed to confirm its potential in patients with TRD.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders may perceive stigma and suffer from mental health problems. Perceived stigma is related to poor mental health among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. The social support deterioration deterrence model proposes that stressors (e.g. perceived stigma) negatively affect mental health via reduced perceived social support. To the best of the present authors' knowledge, the model has never been tested in the context of perceived stigma among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The paper used structural equation modelling to show that the social support deterioration deterrence model could explain the relationship between perceived stigma and depression among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. Perceived support from family and perceived support from friends are mediators in the association between perceived stigma and depression among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Psychosocial interventions to increase perceived support from family and friends would be helpful in addressing perceived stigma effects on mental health. ABSTRACT: Introduction Although the relationship between perceived stigma and mental health outcomes is documented in the existing literature, very few studies have investigated the mechanism linking perceived stigma and mental health outcomes among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. To the best of the present authors' knowledge, the social support deterioration deterrence model has never been tested in the context of perceived stigma among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. Aim/Question Guided by the social support deterioration deterrence model, the present study investigated the mediating role of perceived support from three types of social network members (i.e. significant others, family members, and friends) in the association between perceived stigma and depression in individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. Method The study employed a cross-sectional survey design comprising 300 participants diagnosed with substance use disorders in Taiwan. Results Results of a structural equation modelling analysis indicated that perceived stigma was significantly associated with depression. The relationship between perceived stigma and depression was partially mediated by perceived family support and perceived friend support. Discussion Consistent with the prediction of the social support deterioration deterrence model, the negative effect of perceived stigma on depression for individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders is through the mediating effect of social support. Implications for practices Based on the present study's results, psychosocial interventions to increase perceived support from family and friends would be helpful in addressing negative effects of perceived stigma on mental health among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders.

Extant grief studies examine the way humans mourn the loss of a nonhuman, be it an animal, object, or abstract concept. Yet little is known about grief when it comes to robots. As humans are increasingly brought into contact with more human-like machines, it is relevant to consider the nature of our relationship to these technologies. Centered on a qualitative analysis of 35 films, this study seeks to determine whether humans experience grief when a robot is destroyed, and if so, under what conditions. Our observations of the relevant film scenes suggest that eight variables play a role in determining whether and to what extent a human experiences grief in response to a robot's destruction. As a result, we have devised a psychological mechanism by which different types of grief can be classified as a function of these eight variables.

The concept of death is abstract, complex and has a number of meanings. Thus, its understanding and the approach taken to it depend, to a large extent, on aspects such as age, culture, training and religion. Nursing students have regular contact with the process of death and so it is of great interest to understand the attitudes they have towards it. As we live in a plural society it is even more interesting to not only understand the attitudes of Spanish students but, also, those of students coming from other countries. In the present article, we seek to identify and compare the attitudes held by nursing degree students at Hekima-Santé University (Senegal) and the University of Huelva (Spain) about end of life processes. The study identifies elements that condition attitudes and coping with death, whilst considering curricular differences with regards to specific end of life training. A descriptive, cross-sectional and multi-center study was conducted. The overall sample (N = 142) was divided into groups: Hekima-Santé University (Dakar, Senegal) and the University of Huelva (Huelva, Spain). The measurement instruments used were an ad-hoc questionnaire and Bugen´s Coping with Death Scale. Statistically significant differences (p = 0.005, 95%CI) were found in relation to overall Bugen Scale scores. We can confirm that specialized end of life training (University of Huelva, Spain) did not lead to better coping when compared with a population whose academic curriculum did not provide specific training and who engaged in more religious practices (Hekima-Santé University, Senegal). In cultures where religion not only influences the spiritual dimension of the individual, but acts in the ethical and moral system and consequently in the economic, educational and family sphere, the accompaniment at the end of life transcends the formative plane. Considering the plural society in which we live, the training that integrates the Degree in Nursing with regard to the care of the final process, must be multidimensional in which spirituality and faith are integrated, working emotional and attentional skills, as well as cultural competence strategies in this process.

So much has changed in our understanding of how autism impacts our lives. We still have a long way to go, however, until it becomes the norm that the principle of 'nothing about me without me' is upheld throughout autism research and autism practice. Autistic researchers and practitioners will play a central role in delivering this vision. Currently, the autistic community is mourning the passing of one such person, a true pioneer, Dr. Dinah Murray. It is fitting that we pay a tribute to her achievements and contributions, for these have enriched our lives and over-laid the autism landscape with understanding, acceptance, action and advocacy.I am not proposing that we change those opening paragraphs, just that we duplicate and adjust the text in the abstract as well. I think that reading this on the journal page would help people decide if they want to read the full letter, by giving them a bit more of a taste of the rest of the piece. I don't think it matters that the text will be repeated in the main article - this is a common practice for things like letters to the editor and commentaries.

Post-stroke depression (PSD) is a severe complication of cerebrovascular stroke affecting about one-third of stroke survivors. Moreover, PSD is associated with functional recovery and quality of life (QOL) in stroke survivors. Screening for PSD is recommended. There are, however, differences in the literature on the impact of early screening on functional outcomes. In this systematic review, we synthesise the currently available literature regarding the associations between timing and setting of PSD screening and mortality, QOL and functional outcomes in stroke survivors. We will systematically search electronic databases including PubMed, Embase, APA PsycINFO, Web of Science, Scopus and CINAHL from inception to August 2021. Four reviewers will screen the title and abstract and full-text level records identified in the search in a blinded fashion to determine the study eligibility. Any selection disagreements between the reviewers will be resolved by the study investigator. Data extraction of eligible studies will be conducted by two reviewers using a predefined template. We will complete the quality assessment of included articles independently by two reviewers using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale. Eventual discrepancies will be resolved by the principal investigator. Due to the nature of the study design, ethical approval is not required. The systematic review and meta-analysis findings will be published and disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal. Our results will also be disseminated through posters and presentations at appropriate scientific conferences. CRD42021235993.

Humans possess the unique ability to communicate emotions through language. Although concepts like anger or awe are abstract, there is a shared consensus about what these English emotion words mean. This consensus may give the impression that their meaning is static, but we propose this is not the case. We cannot travel back to earlier periods to study emotion concepts directly, but we can examine text corpora, which have partially preserved the meaning of emotion words. Using natural language processing of historical text, we found evidence for semantic change in emotion words over the past century and that varying rates of change were predicted in part by an emotion concept's prototypicality-how representative it is of the broader category of "emotion". Prototypicality negatively correlated with historical rates of emotion semantic change obtained from text-based word embeddings, beyond more established variables including usage frequency in English and a second comparison language, French. This effect for prototypicality did not consistently extend to the semantic category of birds, suggesting its relevance for predicting semantic change may be category-dependent. Our results suggest emotion semantics are evolving over time, with prototypical emotion words remaining semantically stable, while other emotion words evolve more freely.

Loneliness and social isolation are prevalent public health concerns among community-dwelling older adults. One approach that is becoming an increasingly popular method of reducing levels of loneliness and social isolation among older adults is through technology-driven solutions. This protocol outlines a research trajectory whereby a scoping review will be initiated in order to illustrate and map the existing technological approaches that have been utilized to diminish levels of loneliness and social isolation among community-dwelling older adults aged 60 years or older. We will address the question: what are the most common and less used technological approaches to reduce loneliness and social isolation among community-dwelling older adults? A scoping review of Academic Search Premier, AGEline, Global Health, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and Web of Science databases will take place using our search terms including the following: loneliness, social isolation, older adults, elderly, Aged, Aged 80 and over, program, evaluation, trial, intervention, technology, computer, information and communication technology, internet, and robot. The initial electronic search will be supplemented by reviewing the reference lists and review articles to identify any missing studies. To meet study inclusion criteria, intervention studies had to pertain to community-dwelling adults aged 60 years or older, include technological interventions, include loneliness and/or social isolation as outcome variables, and be written in the English language. Two parallel independent assessments of study eligibility will be conducted for the title, abstract, and full-text screens. Any disagreement will be resolved by consensus and a third reviewer consulted to make a decision if consensus is not achieved initially. Finally, the amalgamation of results will be an iterative process whereby reviewers will refine the plan for presenting results after data extraction is completed so that all of the contents of the extraction may be included in the results. The information gleaned in this scoping review will be essential to understand the degree to which technological interventions influence social isolation and loneliness among older adults and identify gaps for further research.

What is the central question of this study? Can swimming exercise decrease depression-like behaviour and inflammation in type 2 diabetic mice? What is the main finding and its importance? Swimming exercise decreased depression-like behaviour by reducing inflammation in type 2 diabetic mice. Swimming exercise might be useful for the treatment of depression-related disorders in patients with type 2 diabetes. Clinical and experimental studies have shown that type 2 diabetes is associated with depression-related disorders. Inflammation has been identified as a common mechanism in both type 2 diabetes and depression. Several studies have suggested that swimming exercise might be able to reduce depression-related symptoms. The present study aimed to explore whether swimming exercise can decrease depression-like behaviour in type 2 diabetic mice. To induce type 2 diabetes, male C57BL6 mice were treated with a high-fat diet and streptozocin. Type 2 diabetic animals were subjected to swimming exercise for 4 weeks. Then, depression-like behaviours were evaluated by sucrose preference, novelty-suppressed feeding, social interaction and tail suspension tests. We also measured levels of glucose, insulin and pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1β and tumour necrosis factor-α in the serum of animals. The results indicated that type 2 diabetes significantly increased anhedonia- and depression-like behaviours in mice. We also found significant increases in glucose, insulin and inflammatory cytokines in diabetic mice. Moreover, swimming exercise reduced anhedonia- and depression-like behaviour in type 2 diabetic mice. Swimming exercise also decreased glucose and inflammatory cytokines in the serum of mice with type 2 diabetes. Collectively, this study demonstrates that swimming exercise decreased depression-like behaviour by reducing inflammation in type 2 diabetic mice. Further clinical studies are needed to validate these findings in patients with type 2 diabetes.

There is ample evidence that modern nurses are under strain and that interventions to support the nursing workforce have not recognised the complexity inherent in nursing work. Creating a modern model of nursing work may assist nurses in developing workable solutions to professional problems. A new model may also foster cohesion among broad and diverse nursing roles. The aim of this meta-narrative review was to investigate how researchers, using different methods and theoretical approaches, have contributed to the understanding of nursing work. A meta-narrative review was done to evaluate the trajectory of nursing work research, from 1953 to present. This review progressed through the stages of planning, searching, mapping, appraisal, and synthesis. A total of 121 articles were included in this meta-narrative review. These articles revealed five narratives of nursing work, where work is conceptualised as labour. These narratives were physical labour (n = 14), emotional (n = 53), cognitive (n = 24), and organisational (n = 1), and combinations of more than one type of labour (n = 29 articles). The paradigms identified in the meta-narrative were the positivist, interpretive, critical, and evidence-based paradigms. Each article in the review corresponded with a paradigm and a labour narrative, creating a comprehensive model. Nursing work can be understood as a model of physical, emotional, cognitive, and organisational labour. These different types of labour may be hidden and taken for granted. Nurses can use this model to articulate what they do and how it supports patient safety. Nurses can also advocate for staffing allocations that consider all types of nursing labour. Tweetable abstract: Nursing work is complex and includes physical, emotional, cognitive, and organisational labour. Staffing needs to take all nursing labour into account.

While the discussion on the foundations of social understanding mainly revolves around the notions of empathy, affective mentalizing, and cognitive mentalizing, their degree of overlap versus specificity is still unclear. We took a meta-analytic approach to unveil the neural bases of cognitive mentalizing, affective mentalizing, and empathy, both in healthy individuals and pathological conditions characterized by social deficits such as schizophrenia and autism. We observed partially overlapping networks for cognitive and affective mentalizing in the medial prefrontal, posterior cingulate, and lateral temporal cortex, while empathy mainly engaged fronto-insular, somatosensory, and anterior cingulate cortex. Adjacent process-specific regions in the posterior lateral temporal, ventrolateral, and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex might underpin a transition from abstract representations of cognitive mental states detached from sensory facets to emotionally-charged representations of affective mental states. Altered mentalizing-related activity involved distinct sectors of the posterior lateral temporal cortex in schizophrenia and autism, while only the latter group displayed abnormal empathy related activity in the amygdala. These data might inform the design of rehabilitative treatments for social cognitive deficits.

To evaluate the short-term psychological consequences of gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD). A prospective observational multicentre cohort study. Nationwide in the Netherlands. GTD patients. Online questionnaires directly after diagnosis. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Distress Thermometer (DT), Impact of Event Scale (IES) and Reproductive Concerns Scale (RCS). Sixty GTD patients were included between 2017 and 2020. Anxious feelings (47%) were more commonly expressed than depressive feelings (27%). Patients experienced moderate to severe adaptation problems in 88%. Patients who already had children were less concerned about their reproductivity than were patients without children (mean score 10.4 versus 15.0, P = 0.031), and patients with children experienced lower distress levels (IES mean score 25.7 versus 34.7, P = 0.020). In addition, patients with previous pregnancy loss scored lower for distress compared with patients without pregnancy loss (IES mean score 21.1 versus 34.2, P = 0.002). We recommend that physicians monitor physical complaints and the course of psychological wellbeing over time in order to provide personalised supportive care in time for patients who have high levels of distress at baseline. GTD patients experience increased levels of distress, anxiety and depression, suggesting the diagnosis has a substantial effect on the psychological wellbeing of patients. The impact of GTD diagnosis on intrusion and avoidance seems to be ameliorated in patients who have children or who have experienced previous pregnancy loss. Patients with gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) experience short-term psychological consequences such as distress, anxiety and depression, suggesting that the diagnosis GTD has a substantial effect on the psychological wellbeing of patients. Various patient characteristics affect the impact of GTD diagnosis.

Post stroke depression 

Doll play provides opportunities for children to practice social skills by creating imaginary worlds, taking others' perspectives, and talking about others' internal states. Previous research using functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) found a region over the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) was more active during solo doll play than solo tablet play, implying that doll play might present opportunities for rehearsing theory of mind and empathy skills, even when playing alone. In this research, we addressed this more directly by investigating 4-8-year-old children's (N = 33) use of internal state language (ISL; i.e., references to emotions, desires, and cognitions) when playing with dolls and on tablets, both by themselves and with a social partner, and their associated brain activity in the pSTS using fNIRS. We found that children used more ISL about others when playing with dolls than when playing on tablets, particularly when they were playing alone. This mirrored the patterns seen in pSTS activity in previous research. When individual variability in ISL about others was considered, more ISL about others was linked to stronger pSTS activation. Thus, variability in pSTS activity during play is not about the perceptual or physical differences between toys (e.g., dolls are more human-like) but about what children think about when they engage in different kinds of play. This is the first research to investigate brain activity during spontaneously occurring ISL and indicates that children have a tendency to take and discuss others' perspectives during doll play, with implications for social processing in the brain. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/58HgxbuhBzU.

We tested the relationship between art classification and liking of the graffiti murals among naive viewers (N = 60 college students). Graffiti murals were classified as art to a lesser extent than both abstract and representational paintings. Surprisingly, graffiti murals were only liked less than representational but not abstract paintings. Thus, art classification might not necessarily predict liking.

Music listening provides one of the most significant abstract rewards for humans because hearing music activates the dopaminergic mesolimbic system. Given the strong link between reward, dopamine, and memory, we aimed here to investigate the hypothesis that dopamine-dependent musical reward can drive memory improvements. Twenty-nine healthy participants of both sexes provided reward ratings of unfamiliar musical excerpts that had to be remembered following a consolidation period under three separate conditions: after the ingestion of a dopaminergic antagonist, a dopaminergic precursor, or a placebo. Linear mixed modeling of the intervention data showed that the effect of reward on memory-i.e., the greater the reward experienced while listening to the musical excerpts, the better the memory recollection performance-was modulated by both dopaminergic signaling and individual differences in reward processing. Greater pleasure was consistently associated with better memory outcomes in participants with high sensitivity to musical reward, but this effect was lost when dopaminergic signaling was disrupted in participants with average or low musical hedonia. Our work highlights the flexibility of the human dopaminergic system, which can enhance memory formation not only through explicit and/or primary reinforcers but also via abstract and aesthetic rewards such as music.

To describe older persons' experiences of a cognitive assessment and possible neuropsychiatric symptoms [NPS] related to a neurocognitive diagnosis. A cognitive assessment in primary care is offered to persons with suspected dementia with subsequent referral to a specialist clinic if required. The assessment process, with the likelihood of receiving a dementia diagnosis, is surrounded by uncertainty with long waiting times. Although NPS are common among persons with cognitive impairment persons are not routinely asked about these symptoms during a cognitive assessment. Interviews were held with 18 participants who had completed a cognitive assessment. The Neuropsychiatric Inventory [NPI] was incorporated into one of the interview questions enabling participants to self-report NPS, if present. Interview data were analysed using Interpretive Description. Two main themes were identified: a matter of trust and making sense of a cognitive diagnosis. Experiences of the assessment process ranged from feeling valued to abandoned with variations of trust in the process. A diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment was experienced as an abstract diagnosis devoid of follow-up support. A lack of preparedness for the assessment existed among participants. Some experienced the process as standardised. One half of participants self-reported the presence of one to four NPS, regardless of neurocognitive diagnosis. Irritability and depression were most common NPS identified. Experiences of a cognitive assessment varied from feeling valued by society to abandoned in the absence of follow-up support. The assessment was viewed as a standardised procedure failing to see the person behind the testing. Diagnosis disclosure conversations were experienced as diffuse with participants unprepared for a dementia diagnosis. The NPI enabled participants to identify and report the presence of NPS which otherwise could go undetected during the cognitive assessment, impacting on the person's well-being and daily life.

Although heart-focused anxiety is a common experience of patients following a myocardial infarction, it is one rarely addressed in nursing research. I used Rodger's evolutionary method of concept analysis to review uses of heart-focused anxiety in literature from several disciplines including nursing and synthesized a definition to guide future research. Heart-focused anxiety is an experience of avoidance, fear, and heart-focused attention that follows from cardiac diagnoses, somatic symptoms, and familial factors and results in adverse health outcomes, reassurance seeking, disruption of life, and recurrent chest pain. Although heart-focused anxiety is an evolving concept, the updated definition should help provide a foundation for future research. A Supplemental Digital Content video abstract is available at http://links.lww.com/ANS/A32.

Depression is a prevalent comorbidity in cancer that significantly increases the risk for numerous negative health outcomes. This review updates the current evidence base for management of depression in cancer, highlighting new research directions based on the inflammatory hypothesis of depression. Research on pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy for depression in cancer has shown mixed efficacy partly because of methodological issues arising from the phenomenology of depression in cancer. After decades of stagnancy, more recent high-quality clinical trials are beginning to provide an evidence base to guide treatment. Inflammatory cytokine-associated depression is a subtype of depression that may have particular relevance in cancer, opening new avenues to explore therapeutic targets and biobehavioral impacts of interventions, which may improve cancer outcomes. The continuum of severity in cancer-related depression is important to consider in management approaches. Choice of treatment should be personalized to the patient and their symptom profile as there is currently insufficient evidence to recommend any particular medication or psychotherapy over another. Psychological interventions should be considered first line for mild-to-moderate depression, and pharmacological treatment added for more severe depression, which can be optimally delivered within a collaborative care model. http://links.lww.com/YCO/A62.

During behavioral weight management, individuals reflect on their progress and barriers through goal pursuit (goal setting and goal striving). Emotions during goal pursuit are largely unknown, and previous investigations of emotions in weight management have primarily relied on self-report. In this retrospective study, we used a well-validated computational text analysis approach to explore how emotion words changed over time during goal setting and striving conversations with a coach in a mobile weight loss program. Linear mixed models examined changes in emotion words each month from baseline to program end and compared emotion words between individuals who set an overall concrete goal for the program (concrete goal setters) and those who set an overall abstract goal (abstract goal setters). Contrary to findings using self-report, positive emotion words were stable and negative emotion words significantly increased over time. There was a marginal trend towards greater negative emotion word use being associated with greater weight loss. Concrete goal setters used more positive words than abstract goal setters, with no differences in negative emotion words and weight loss. Implications include the possibility that individuals may need increasing support over time for negative emotions expressed during goal setting and striving, and concrete goals could boost positive emotion. Future research should investigate these possibilities.

To review and synthesize the existing evidence on bereavement care, within the United Kingdom (UK), for ethnic minority communities in terms of barriers and facilitators to access; models of care; outcomes from, and satisfaction with, service provision. A systematic review adopting a framework synthesis approach was conducted. An electronic search of the literature was undertaken in MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, Social Work Abstract and CINAHL via EBSCO, Global Health, Cochrane library, the Trip database and ProQuest between 1995 and 2020. Search terms included bereavement care, ethnic minority populations and the UK setting. From 3,185 initial records, following screening for eligibility, and full-text review of 164 articles, seven studies were identified. There was no research literature outlining the role of family, friends and existing networks; and a real absence of evidence about outcomes and levels of satisfaction for those from an ethnic minority background who receive bereavement care. From the limited literature, the overarching theme for barriers to bereavement care was 'unfamiliarity and irregularities'. Four identified subthemes were 'lack of awareness'; 'variability in support'; 'type and format of support'; and 'culturally specific beliefs'. The overarching theme for facilitators for bereavement care was 'accessibility' with the two subthemes being 'readily available information' and 'inclusive approaches'. Three studies reported on examples of different models of care provision. This review reveals a stark lack of evidence about bereavement care for ethnic minority populations. In particular, understanding more about the role of family, friends and existing support systems, alongside outcomes and satisfaction will begin to develop the evidence base underpinning current provision. Direct user-representation through proactive engagement and co-design approaches may begin to determine the most appropriate models and format of bereavement care for ethnic minority communities to inform service design and delivery.

35 Wistar rats were divided into five groups: control, CRS-control (received normal saline) and three CRS-treated groups received  The findings revealed that 100, 150, and 200 mg/kg of  Overall, these observations would infer that  Assumption pathway describing the probability underlying mechanism of CRS-induced anxiety and reproductive toxicity and protective effect of AT.

Prior research has indicated that disease threat and disgust are associated with harsher moral condemnation. We investigated the role of a specific, highly salient health concern, namely the spread of the coronavirus, and associated COVID-19 disease, on moral disapproval. We hypothesized that individuals who report greater subjective worry about COVID-19 would be more sensitive to moral transgressions. Across three studies (

The purpose was to assess prevalence of suicidality, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and anxiety among female sex workers (FSW). A systematic review and meta-analysis was performed. Search strategy was performed in MEDLINE, Scopus, Web of Science, EMBASE, Ovid and Cochrane Central Database from inception until March 2020. Considered for inclusion were cross-sectional studies performed on FSW that assessed prevalence of any of the following: suicide attempt or suicidal ideation, depression, PTSD, or anxiety. Five reviewers, independently and in duplicate, selected all eligible articles in an abstract and full-text screening phase and, moreover, extracted information from each study. A binomial-normal generalized linear mixed model was employed to estimate prevalence of the conditions. From 8035 studies yielded in the search strategy, 55 were included for analysis. The overall prevalence of suicidal ideation and attempt was 27% (95% C.I. 18-39%) and 20% (95% C.I. 13-28%), respectively. Furthermore, overall prevalence of depression and PTSD was 44% (95% C.I. 35-54%) and 29% (95% C.I. 18-44%), respectively. Eleven studies were classified as high quality. Findings indicate that there is an overall high prevalence of suicidality, depression, and PTSD among FSW. Development of accessible large-scale interventions that assess mental health among this population remains critical.

Prolonged or complicated grief disorder occurs in 9.8% of bereaved adults and can progress into adverse health effects if left unresolved. Evidence on the appropriate and specific diagnostic instrument for the assessment of prolonged or complicated grief disorders is lacking. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the performance of the most widely used instruments to diagnose grief disorders, including The Inventory of Complicated Grief, The Inventory of Complicated Grief - Revised, and the Prolonged Grief Disorder-13. Diagnostic meta-analysis. PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, Medline, Scopus, Web of Science, and Cochrane were searched up to July 1, 2020. We included studies evaluating the sensitivity and specificity of grief disorders diagnostic tools against the comparator tests in individuals who experienced the loss of a family member. A diagnostic meta-analysis of pooled sensitivity and specificity, likelihood ratios, and area under curve were performed with a random-effect and hierarchical model. In the current study, 3540 participants were involved. The six studies of the Inventory of Complicated Grief had pooled sensitivity of 0.93 (95% confidence interval: 0.87 to 0.97) and specificity of 0.96 (95% confidence interval: 0.92 to 0.98). The positive likelihood ratio was 23.4 (95% confidence interval: 11.2 to 49.0) and the negative likelihood ratio was 0.07 (95% confidence interval: 0.04 to 0.14) with area under curve value at 0.96 (95% confidence interval: 0.97 to 0.99). For Prolonged Grief Disorder-13, the three included studies' pooled sensitivity was 0.51 (95% confidence interval: 0.42 to 0.60), and the pooled specificity was 0.96 (95% confidence interval: 0.93 to 0.98). The Inventory of Complicated Grief-Revised evaluation could not be performed as only two articles from the same study were identified in this meta-analysis. The Inventory of Complicated Grief is a highly recommend instrument to differentiate the case of grief disorders. Nurses and health care professionals can use the Inventory of Complicated Grief in the diagnosis of prolonged or complicated grief disorders due to its high sensitivity and specificity values. Further evaluations are needed for the use of Prolonged Grief Disorder-13 and Inventory of Complicated Grief-Revised. The study is registered with the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/bs8n6/?view_only=109e76e59efb4d7699153f62564f57ed). Tweetable abstract: Inventory of Complicated Grief is a highly recommend instrument with high sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing grief disorders.

When designing objects, designers attempt to communicate the purpose and meaning of that object to users using various factors such as visual appearance (aesthetic), practical interaction elements (product semantics) and meanings beyond the practical product interaction (semiotics). This study sought to confirm the previous deductively-developed soma-semiotic framework, whose purpose was to understand and ultimately predict the emotional impact of different design elements on users, using one specifically designed object, Fruit Bowl (FB). The purpose of the study reported in this paper was to compare the theoretically derived emotional responses to FB from the soma-semiotic framework with empirically derived data from users in order to improve the framework. Sixty participants evaluated the meaning and emotion conveyed by FB as well as self-reported their own experienced emotions under two scenarios. The framework predicted that FB would convey joy in a first scenario, and amusement in a second scenario based on different movements. Using a weighted vector analysis based on Russell's two-dimensional Circumplex of emotions, users identified that the overall emotion of the first scenario to be similar to the predicted emotion. This was attributed mostly to the bouncy movement of the bowl and its visual aesthetic. However, in the second scenario the overall rating was calm/impressed; rather than humour. The abstract design did not favour users making the same associations as the designer. We recommend that the soma-semiotic framework be revised to include aesthetic, in addition to semiotic and semantic, elements as determinants of user interpretations and reactions to designed objects.

Adolescence represents a crucial developmental period in shaping mental health trajectories. In this study, we investigated the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on mental health and substance use during this sensitive developmental stage. In this longitudinal, population-based study, surveys were administered to a nationwide sample of 13-18-year-olds in Iceland in October or February in 2016 and 2018, and in October, 2020 (during the COVID-19 pandemic). The surveys assessed depressive symptoms with the Symptom Checklist-90, mental wellbeing with the Short Warwick Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale, and the frequency of cigarette smoking, e-cigarette use, and alcohol intoxication. Demographic data were collected, which included language spoken at home although not ethnicity data. We used mixed effects models to study the effect of gender, age, and survey year on trends in mental health outcomes. 59 701 survey responses were included; response rates ranged from 63% to 86%. An increase in depressive symptoms (β 0·57, 95% CI 0·53 to 0·60) and worsened mental wellbeing (β -0·46, 95% CI -0·49 to -0·42) were observed across all age groups during the pandemic compared with same-aged peers before COVID-19. These outcomes were significantly worse in adolescent girls compared with boys (β 4·16, 95% CI 4·05 to 4·28, and β -1·13, 95% CI -1·23 to -1·03, respectively). Cigarette smoking (OR 2·61, 95% CI 2·59 to 2·66), e-cigarette use (OR 2·61, 95% CI 2·59 to 2·64), and alcohol intoxication (OR 2·59, 95% CI 2·56 to 2·64) declined among 15-18-year-olds during COVID-19, with no similar gender differences. Our results suggest that COVID-19 has significantly impaired adolescent mental health. However, the decrease observed in substance use during the pandemic might be an unintended benefit of isolation, and might serve as a protective factor against future substance use disorders and dependence. Population-level prevention efforts, especially for girls, are warranted. Icelandic Research Fund. For the Icelandic translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Although rodent research provides important insights into neural correlates of human psychology, new cortical areas, connections, and cognitive abilities emerged during primate evolution, including human evolution. Comparison of human brains with those of nonhuman primates reveals two aspects of human brain evolution particularly relevant to emotional disorders: expansion of homotypical association areas and expansion of the hippocampus. Two uniquely human cognitive capacities link these phylogenetic developments with emotion: a subjective sense of participating in and reexperiencing remembered events and a limitless capacity to imagine details of future events. These abilities provided evolving humans with selective advantages, but they also created proclivities for emotional problems. The first capacity evokes the "reliving" of past events in the "here-and-now," accompanied by emotional responses that occurred during memory encoding. It contributes to risk for stress-related syndromes, such as posttraumatic stress disorder. The second capacity, an ability to imagine future events without temporal limitations, facilitates flexible, goal-related behavior by drawing on and creating a uniquely rich array of mental representations. It promotes goal achievement and reduces errors, but the mental construction of future events also contributes to developmental aspects of anxiety and mood disorders. With maturation of homotypical association areas, the concrete concerns of childhood expand to encompass the abstract apprehensions of adolescence and adulthood. These cognitive capacities and their dysfunction are amenable to a research agenda that melds experimental therapeutic interventions, cognitive neuropsychology, and developmental psychology in both humans and nonhuman primates.

The observation of neurological patients showing selective impairments for specific conceptual categories contributed in the development of semantic memory theories. Here, we studied two patients (P01, P02), affected, respectively, by the semantic variant of Primary Progressive Aphasia (sv-PPA) and Cortico-Basal Syndrome (CBS). An implicit lexical decision task, including concrete (animals, tools) and abstract (emotions, social, quantity) concepts, was administered to patients and healthy controls.P01 and P02 showed an abolished priming effect for social and quantity-related concepts, respectively. This double dissociation suggests a role of different brain areas in representing specific abstract categories, giving insights for current semantic memory theories.

To provide a comprehensive cross-sectional overview of published studies on perinatal bereavement care education programmes developed and tested with nurses and midwives. A scoping review following the Arksey and Malley's framework. Eight electronic databases were searched in December 2020 without restriction on language and publication date: PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Web of Science, Scopus and ProQuest. All identified studies were reviewed by two reviewers based on the article title and abstract screening. Full-text articles were assessed according to the inclusion criteria. Original studies that reported on perinatal bereavement care education for nursing and midwifery students or clinical nurses and midwives were included. Eighteen studies out of 817 articles were included. Perinatal bereavement care knowledge and skills, improvement in clinical skills in abortion care and psychological support for nurses and midwives are three core elements of the education content. Workshops and debriefing are the most frequently used formats. The duration mostly ranges from a half day to 3 days. Knowledge, confidence, satisfaction and relevant psychological variables such as posttraumatic stress symptoms are frequently used to evaluate the education programme's effectiveness. Most studies chose to use self-designed questionnaires as measurement tools. Nurses and midwives reported both positive experiences and improvement suggestions for perinatal bereavement care education programmes. This scoping review highlights the benefits of implementing education programmes for preparing nurses and midwives for perinatal bereavement care in the context of universities and hospitals. Longitudinal randomized controlled trials or quasi-experiments could further investigate the effectiveness of a more enhanced perinatal bereavement care education programme with a longer intervention time using valid and reliable evaluation tools.

Sleep disturbances are one of the most frequent chief complaints brought to the healthcare professionals during routine prenatal care visits. Sleep and mood disturbances are often intertwined, and depression in particular is a leading cause of disability and disease burden worldwide with women more likely to be affected than men. However, limited studies have prospectively investigated the association between sleep disturbances and longitudinal risk of depression in pregnant women, with no studies using actigraphy to objectively estimate daytime and nighttime sleep duration and the extent of sleep disruption. To examine the predictive and longitudinal association of objective actigraphic and subjective sleep disturbances with depressive symptoms in pregnant women. A prospective observational cohort study. 204 1st trimester pregnant women recruited from a university-affiliated hospital provided socio-demographic and health information, wore a wrist actigraph for 7 days, and completed Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Center for Epidemiologic Studies - Depression Scale, and Epworth Sleepiness Scale. Identical data collection procedures were implemented again in the 2nd and 3rd trimester, with each data collection scheduled at least 8 weeks apart. We estimated unadjusted and multivariable adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals to evaluate various types of sleep disturbances at 1st trimester and risk of depression at follow-ups. 121 (59.3%) 1st trimester women had a sleep efficiency of < 85% by actigraphy, and 92 (45.1%) had Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index global scores > 5 indicative of poor sleep quality. In multivariable adjusted models, 1st trimester objectively measured sleep efficiency < 85% was associated with 2.71-, 3.87-, and 5.27-fold increased odds having risk of depression at 2nd trimester, 3rd trimester, and both 2nd and 3rd trimesters, respectively. Healthy pregnant women experience both objective and subjective sleep disturbances during the early trimester, with a substantial proportion of them also having high depressive symptoms throughout the pregnancy. Objectively assessed poor sleep quality in the 1st trimester, but not self-reported characteristics of disturbed sleep, may play a role in the development of both elevated and persistent high depressive symptoms in pregnancy. Future studies using objective sleep measurements and clinical diagnostic interviews are warranted to examine whether an early intervention aiming at improving sleep may help reduce high depressive symptom risk and lower depression rate in women during pregnancy. Tweetable abstract: Objectively assessed poor sleep efficiency in the 1st trimester predicts both elevated and persistent high depressive symptoms in pregnancy.

To develop a Core Outcome Set (COS) for treatment of perinatal depression. Systematic overview of outcomes reported in the literature and consensus development study. International. Two hundred and twenty-two participants, mainly patients, healthcare professionals and researchers, representing 13 countries. A systematic overview of outcomes reported in recently published research, a two-round Delphi survey and a consensus meeting at which the final COS was decided using modified nominal group technique. In the literature search, 1772 abstracts were identified and evaluated, and 165 studies were finally included in the review. In all, 106 outcomes were identified and included in the Delphi survey. In all, 222 participants registered for the first round of the Delphi survey and 151 (68%) responded. In the second round, 123 (55%) participants responded. Thirteen participants attended the consensus meeting, where the following nine outcomes were agreed upon for inclusion in the final COS: self-assessed symptoms of depression, diagnosis of depression by a clinician, parent to infant bonding, self-assessed symptoms of anxiety, quality of life, satisfaction with intervention, suicidal thoughts, attempted or committed suicide, thoughts of harming the baby, and adverse events. The relevant stakeholders prioritised outcomes and reached consensus on a COS comprising nine outcomes. We expect that this COS will contribute to the consistency and uniformity of outcome selection and reporting in future clinical trials involving treatment of perinatal depression. Development of a core outcome set regarding treatment for perinatal depression by @SBU_en.

The objective of this scoping review was to examine and map the range of nonpharmacological interventions used in the perioperative period to prevent anxiety in adolescents. Undergoing surgery involves experiencing fears and uncertainties that lead to an increase in anxiety levels. The interventions used to prevent anxiety in the perioperative period in adolescents must be appropriate to their developmental stage. Studies involving adolescents (10 to 19 years of age) undergoing any type of surgical procedure and specifying any nonpharmacological interventions administered to prevent anxiety, implemented in the perioperative period, were included in this review. A comprehensive search strategy using multiple databases was employed to find relevant studies. The databases search included MEDLINE via PubMed; CINAHL Plus with Full Text via EBSCO; Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials; LILACS; Scopus; Library, Information Science and Technology Abstracts; PsycINFO; JBI Connect+; and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Sources of unpublished studies and gray literature were TDX - Tesis Doctorals en Xarxa (Spain); RCAAP - Repositório Científico de Acesso Aberto de Portugal; OpenGrey - System for Information on Grey Literature in Europe; and MedNar. Studies published in English, Spanish, or Portuguese were included. There was no date restriction, or geographical or cultural limitation applied to the search. The relevant studies and their reported outcomes were organized and analyzed. The database search yielded 1438 articles, and three additional records were added after hand searching. Title, abstract, and full-text review identified 11 papers that met the inclusion criteria. The final data set represented 947 participants. The data were analyzed according to the type of nonpharmacological intervention, population, concept (outcome measured and tool used), context (physical location; preoperative vs. postoperative), frequency and duration of the intervention, and which professional team member implemented the intervention. Eight nonpharmacological interventions were identified, applied either in the preoperative or postoperative context. The nurses were the main professionals administering the nonpharmacological interventions to the adolescents. A variety of nonpharmacological interventions were used in the perioperative period to prevent anxiety in adolescents. The most common interventions were music/musicotherapy and hypnosis/guided imagery. However, other interventions such as therapeutic play, preoperative preparation program, mothers' presence during the anesthesia induction, distraction, relaxation training, massage therapy, and reading were also identified. These interventions were used alone or in a combination of two interventions, either preoperatively or postoperatively. The adolescents in the early stage (10 to 14 years) were the most studied group and the adolescents in the late stage (17 to 19 years) were the least studied. Future research should focus on the implementation of nonpharmacological interventions in the perioperative period involving adolescents, particularly late adolescents. A systematic review on the effect of nonpharmacological interventions for anxiety management in adolescents in the perioperative period should be conducted. Open Science Framework: https://osf.io/jhwca/.

Social isolation and loneliness are interrelated but independent constructs that threaten healthy aging and well-being and are thought to be associated with hearing loss. Our aim was to review the empirical studies that have examined the association between hearing loss and social isolation and/or loneliness to highlight future research needs. Scoping review. Three electronic databases were searched combining key terms of "hearing loss", "hearing impairment" and "deaf*" with "social isolation" or "loneliness", yielding an initial result of 939 articles. After removing duplicate articles, abstract screening and full-text review, 57 original articles met our inclusion criteria. Studies were diverse in terms of methodology with the most common type of study being studies that have explored the relationship between hearing loss and social isolation/loneliness from large population-based datasets. Only eight studies were intervention studies and of these, only one specifically explored the outcomes of hearing aids (HAs) on social isolation/loneliness. Further research is warranted to examine the influence that hearing interventions, in particular HAs, have on social isolation and/or loneliness, with a specific need to include people who identify as being socially isolated and/or lonely at baseline.

Speakers naturally produce prosodic variations depending on their emotional state. Receptive prosody has several processing stages. We aimed to conduct lesion-symptom mapping to determine whether damage (core infarct or hypoperfusion) to specific brain areas was associated with receptive aprosodia or with impairment at different processing stages in individuals with acute right hemisphere stroke. We also aimed to determine whether different subtypes of receptive aprosodia exist that are characterized by distinctive behavioral performance patterns. Twenty patients with receptive aprosodia following right hemisphere ischemic stroke were enrolled within five days of stroke; clinical imaging was acquired. Participants completed tests of receptive emotional prosody, and tests of each stage of prosodic processing (Stage 1: acoustic analysis; Stage 2: analyzing abstract representations of acoustic characteristics that convey emotion; Stage 3: semantic processing). Emotional facial recognition was also assessed. LASSO regression was used to identify predictors of performance on each behavioral task. Predictors entered into each model included 14 right hemisphere regions, hypoperfusion in four vascular territories as measured using FLAIR hyperintense vessel ratings, lesion volume, age, and education. A k-medoid cluster analysis was used to identify different subtypes of receptive aprosodia based on performance on the behavioral tasks. Impaired receptive emotional prosody and impaired emotional facial expression recognition were both predicted by greater percent damage to the caudate. The k-medoid cluster analysis identified three different subtypes of aprosodia. One group was primarily impaired on Stage 1 processing and primarily had frontotemporal lesions. The second group had a domain-general emotion recognition impairment and maximal lesion overlap in subcortical areas. Finally, the third group was characterized by a Stage 2 processing deficit and had lesion overlap in posterior regions. Subcortical structures, particularly the caudate, play an important role in emotional prosody comprehension. Receptive aprosodia can result from impairments at different processing stages.

Identification of factors which influence health after a cardiovascular disease (CVD) event will assist with reducing the high health and economic burden of CVD. We undertook a systematic review to investigate the association between social health (lower social isolation, higher social support and lower loneliness) and health and well-being after a CVD event among people living in Australia and New Zealand. Four electronic databases were systematically searched until June 2020. Two reviewers undertook title/abstract screen. One reviewer undertook full-text screen and data extraction. A second author either independently extracted or checked data. Narrative thematic analysis was undertaken. Of the 752 unique records retrieved, 39 papers from 29 studies met our inclusion criteria. Included studies recruited between 10 and 1,455 participants, aged 12-96 years, and the majority were male. Greater social health was consistently associated with better mental health outcomes (lower depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms and psychological distress). Lower social isolation and higher social support were associated with the extent to which patient needs were being met. Living situation was not associated with mental health outcomes, and being married or living with someone was associated with greater medication adherence. Our systematic review demonstrates that greater social health is associated with better mental health outcomes and met patient needs among cardiac patients. As partner status and living status did not align with social isolation and social support findings in this review, we recommend they not be used as social health proxies when assessing health outcomes among CVD patients. Our review highlights the need for more research focused on women and the importance of gender-disaggregated reporting. Further assessment is required to evaluate whether loneliness is associated with health and well-being outcomes after a CVD event.

BOLD fMRI studies have provided compelling evidence that the human brain demonstrates substantial moment-to-moment fluctuations in both activity and functional connectivity (FC) patterns. While the role of brain signal variability in fostering cognitive adaptation to ongoing environmental demands is well-documented, the relevance of moment-to-moment changes in FC patterns is still debated. Here, we adopt a graph theoretical approach in order to shed light on the cognitive-affective implications of FC variability and associated profiles of functional network communication in adulthood. Our goal is to identify brain communication pathways underlying FC reconfiguration at multiple timescales, thereby improving understanding of how faster perceptually bound versus slower conceptual processes shape neural tuning to the dynamics of the external world and, thus, indirectly, mold affective and cognitive responding to the environment. To this end, we used neuroimaging and behavioural data collected during movie watching by the Cambridge Center for Ageing and Neuroscience (N = 642, 326 women) and the Human Connectome Project (N = 176, 106 women). FC variability evoked by changes to both the concrete perceptual and the more abstract conceptual representation of an ongoing situation increased from young to older adulthood. However, coupling between variability in FC patterns and concrete environmental features was stronger at younger ages. FC variability (both moment-to-moment/concrete featural and abstract conceptual boundary-evoked) was associated with age-distinct profiles of network communication, specifically, greater functional integration of the default mode network in older adulthood, but greater informational flow across neural networks implicated in environmentally driven attention and control (cingulo-opercular, salience, ventral attention) in younger adulthood. Whole-brain communication pathways anchored in default mode regions relevant to episodic and semantic context creation (i.e., angular and middle temporal gyri) supported FC reconfiguration in response to changes in the conceptual representation of an ongoing situation (i.e., narrative event boundaries), as well as stronger coupling between moment-to-moment fluctuations in FC and concrete environmental features. Fluid intelligence/abstract reasoning was directly linked to levels of brain-environment alignment, but only indirectly associated with levels of FC variability. Specifically, stronger coupling between moment-to-moment FC variability and concrete environmental features predicted poorer fluid intelligence and greater affectively driven environmental vigilance. Complementarily, across the adult lifespan, higher fluid (but not crystallised) intelligence was related to stronger expression of the network communication profile underlying momentary and event boundary-based FC variability during youth. Our results indicate that the adaptiveness of dynamic FC reconfiguration during naturalistic information processing changes across the lifespan due to the associated network communication profiles. Moreover, our findings on brain-environment alignment complement the existing literature on the beneficial consequences of modulating brain signal variability in response to environmental complexity. Specifically, they imply that coupling between moment-to-moment FC variability and concrete environmental features may index a bias towards perceptually-bound, rather than conceptual processing, which hinders affective functioning and strategic cognitive engagement with the external environment.

What is the central question of this study? Young plasma contains several rejuvenating factors that exert beneficial effects in ageing and neurodegenerative diseases: can repeated transfusion of young plasma improve depressive behaviour in aged rats? What is the main finding and its importance? Following chronic transfusion of young plasma, depressive behaviour was improved in the depression model of aged rats, which was associated with reduced apoptosis process in the prefrontal cortex. Brain ageing alters brain responses to stress, playing an essential role in the pathophysiology of late-life depression. Moreover, apoptotic activity is up-regulated in the prefrontal cortex in ageing and stress-related mood disorders. Considerable evidence suggests that factors in young blood could reverse age-related dysfunctions in organs, especially in the brain. Therefore, this study investigated the effect of young plasma administration on depressive behaviours in aged rats exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), with a focus on the apoptosis process. Young (3 months old) and aged (22 months old) male rats were randomly assigned into four groups: young control (YC), aged control (AC), aged rats subjected to CUMS (A+CUMS) and aged rats subjected to CUMS and treated with young plasma (A+CUMS+YP). In the A+CUMS and A+CUMS+YP groups, CUMS was used to generate the depression rat model. Moreover, the A+CUMS+YP group received pooled plasma (1 ml, intravenously), collected from young rats, three times per week for 4 weeks. Young plasma administration significantly improved CUMS-induced depression-like behaviours, including decreased sucrose consumption ratio, reduced locomotor activity and prolonged immobility time. Importantly, young plasma reduced neuronal apoptosis in the prefrontal cortex that was associated with reduced TUNEL-positive cells and cleaved caspase-3 protein levels in the A+CUMS+YP compared with the A+CUMS group. Young plasma can partially improve the neuropathology of late-life depression through the apoptotic signalling pathways.

Color has been a defining feature of paintings throughout art history. Despite the great diversity in the use of color between epochs, there are some surprisingly stable and unifying features in chromatic properties across visual artworks. For example, artists' palettes seem to be biased toward the yellow-red range of the spectrum. Here, we assess the impact of a holistic color manipulation (i.e., rotating the color gamut) on aesthetic liking and perceived colorfulness of abstract paintings. We presented 6 versions each of 100 abstract artworks that differed only in the rotational degree of their color gamut within the 

Psychological alterations are common and considered important for symptom generation in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). However, the possible cumulative effect of having multiple psychological alterations on gastrointestinal (GI) symptom severity in IBS is largely unknown. Patients with IBS (Rome IV) completed validated questionnaires assessing GI symptoms (Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale, IBS version and IBS Severity Scoring System), personality traits (Big Five), posttraumatic stress and psychological alterations, anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory), depression (Patient Health Questionnaire, 9-item version), fatigue (Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory), pain catastrophizing, somatization (Patient Health Questionnaire, 12-item version), stress (Perceived Stress Scale), and GI-specific anxiety (Visceral Sensitivity Index). Of the 18 possible psychological factors, those with significant associations with GI symptom severity, corrected for multiple comparisons, were identified. The associations between increasing number of psychological alterations (validated cutoff values or uppermost tertile) and the severity of GI symptoms were analyzed with linear trend analyses. In total, 106 patients with IBS (Rome IV criteria) were included (72 [68%] women, median age of 35 [interquartile range: 26-45] years). Psychological alterations were common and overlap among these factors were frequently seen. Five psychological factors (physical fatigue, GI-specific anxiety, perceived stress, pain catastrophizing, and trait anxiety) demonstrated significant, noncollinear associations with GI symptom severity. With increasing number of these psychological alterations, a gradual increase was seen in the overall severity of GI symptoms (Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale, IBS version: partial η = 0.268, P < 0.001; IBS Severity Scoring System: partial η = 0.219, P < 0.001, both large effect sizes). Distinct associations were seen between the severity of GI symptoms and individual, as well as an increasing number of psychological alterations. This highlights the importance of understanding different psychological alterations for the disease burden in IBS (visual abstract, Supplementary Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/AJG/B756).

To determine the association between child attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and prenatal exposure to selective serotonin (SSRI) and serotonin-norepinephrine (SNRI) reuptake inhibitor antidepressants, by timing and duration, with quantification of bias due to exposure misclassification. Norwegian Mother, Father and Child Cohort Study and national health registries. Nationwide, Norway. A total of 6395 children born to women who reported depression/anxiety in pregnancy and were either medicated with SSRI/SNRI in pregnancy (n = 818) or non-medicated (n = 5228), or did not report depression/anxiety but used antidepressants 6 months before pregnancy (discontinuers, n = 349). Diagnosis of ADHD or filled prescription for ADHD medication in children, and mother-reported symptoms of ADHD by child age 5 years. When the hazard was averaged over the duration of the study follow up, there was no difference in ADHD risk between ever in utero SSRI/SNRI-exposed children and comparators (weighted hazard ratio [wHR] 1.07, 95% CI 0.76-1.51 versus non-medicated; wHR 1.53, 95% CI 0.77-3.07 versus discontinuers). Underestimation of effects due to exposure misclassification was modest. In early childhood, the risk for ADHD was lower with prenatal SSRI/SNRI exposure compared with no exposure, and so were ADHD symptoms (weighted β -0.23, 95% CI -0.39 to -0.08); this risk became elevated at child age 7-9 years (wHR 1.93, 95% CI 1.22-3.05). Maternal depression/anxiety before pregnancy was independently associated with child ADHD. Prenatal SSRI/SNRI exposure is unlikely to considerably increase the risk of child ADHD beyond that posed by maternal depression/anxiety. The elevated risk at child age 7-9 years needs to be elucidated. Women with depression who use antidepressants in pregnancy do not have greater risk of having children with ADHD. Findings in school-age children needs follow up.

Native speakers frequently outperform non-native speakers on classic semantic verbal fluency tasks that target concrete non-emotional word retrieval. Much less is known about performance differences in retrieval of emotional words, which are abstract and crucial to social-emotional competence. This study compared native and non-native speakers' verbal productivity on emotional and non-emotional verbal fluency tasks. Forty-seven native and 37 non-native speakers of English participated in the study. Participants completed seven semantic verbal fluency tasks in English including classic semantic (e.g., "animals"), action (e.g., "things people do"), and emotional variants (e.g., "things that make people happy"). Subjective and objective measures of English proficiency, information about language usage, and cognitive measures (working memory) were obtained for each participant. Verbal productivity for classic semantic, action, and emotional verbal fluency was lower for non-native speakers. Smaller language-specific vocabulary in non-native speakers did not moderate positivity biases in emotional verbal fluency. Subjective and objective language proficiency measures were less predictive of performance on the emotional than the non-emotional verbal fluency tasks. Non-native speakers perform more poorly than native speakers on semantic verbal fluency in English for both emotional and non-emotional variants. Positivity biases are not moderated by language proficiency and are reliable features of emotional verbal fluency. Proficiency measures may be less effective in predicting generation of emotional than neutral words.

We introduce the Bicolor Affective Silhouettes and Shapes (BASS): a set of 583 normed black-and-white silhouette images that is freely available via https://osf.io/anej6/ . Valence and arousal ratings were obtained for each image from US residents as a Western population (n = 777) and Chinese residents as an Asian population (n = 869). Importantly, the ratings demonstrate that, notwithstanding their visual simplicity, the images represent a wide range of affective content (from very negative to very positive, and from very calm to very intense). In addition, speaking to their cultural neutrality, the valence ratings correlated very highly between US and Chinese ratings. Arousal ratings were less consistent between the two samples, with larger discrepancies in the older age groups inviting further investigation. Due to their simplistic and abstract nature, our silhouette images may be useful for intercultural studies, color and shape perception research, and online stimulus presentation in particular. We demonstrate the versatility of the BASS by an example online experiment.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The death of a client to suicide evokes a range of grief responses for mental health nurses (MHNs), which vary in intensity according to the nature of the therapeutic relationship with the deceased client. There are limited qualitative studies on the experiences of nurses working in the community and the personal or professional strategies used by nurses to cope with the death of a client by suicide. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Following a client suicide, MHNs were often left to carry the burden of grief alone and to care for themselves with the support of their family and colleagues. While all participants perceived the need for support following the death of a client by suicide, they were offered minimal support beyond the debriefing meetings, with their grief experience being largely unacknowledged and disenfranchised. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: MHNs and services need to establish and promote a culture of openness in which suicide is anticipated as a possible outcome, even with excellent standards of care and wherein all staff are supported and encouraged to discuss and reflect on their concerns and fears during the aftermath of a client suicide. As MHNs are often left to carry the burden of grief alone, services need to recognize the emotional cost of embodied engagement with clients and families and provide the necessary supports. ABSTRACT: Introduction Experiencing a client's death through suicide is complex and challenging, yet limited research exists on how MHNs might deal with its aftermath. Aim This study aimed to explore the impact and responses of MHNs to a client suicide. Method The study design is a secondary analysis of an existing data set involving semi-structured interview with 33 MHNs that were analysed using the principles of grounded theory. To answer the secondary question on the impact and responses of MHNs to the death of a client by suicide a subset of the data from 10 participants who experienced the death of a client by suicide were re-analysed using thematic analysis. Ethical approval was granted by the university ethics committee. Findings The findings identified five themes: "Hearing the news," "Experiencing the impact of grief," "Grieving privately" "Searching for meaning" and "Questioning practice." Discussion Findings highlighted that although participants perceived the need for support, they were offered minimal support beyond the debriefing meetings, with their grief experience being largely unacknowledged and disenfranchised. Implications for practice MHN services need to promote a culture of openness wherein all MHNs are supported and encouraged to discuss their concerns and fears during the aftermath of a client suicide.

Sound-shape crossmodal correspondence, the naturally occurring associations between abstract visual shapes and nonsense sounds, is one aspect of multisensory processing that strengthens across early childhood. Little is known regarding whether school-aged children exhibit other variants of sound-shape correspondences such as audio-tactile (AT) associations between tactile shapes and nonsense sounds. Based on previous research in blind individuals suggesting the role of visual experience in establishing sound-shape correspondence, we hypothesized that children would show weaker AT association than adults and that children's AT association would be enhanced with visual experience of the shapes. In Experiment 1, we showed that, when asked to match shapes explored haptically via touch to nonsense words, 6- to 8-year-olds exhibited inconsistent AT associations, whereas older children and adults exhibited the expected AT associations, despite robust audio-visual (AV) associations found across all age groups in a related study. In Experiment 2, we confirmed the role of visual experience in enhancing AT association; here, 6- to 8-year-olds could exhibit the expected AT association if first exposed to the AV condition, whereas adults showed the expected AT association irrespective of whether the AV condition was tested first or second. Our finding suggests that AT sound-shape correspondence is weak early in development relative to AV sound-shape correspondence, paralleling previous findings on the development of other types of multisensory associations. The potential role of visual experience in the development of sound-shape correspondences in other senses is discussed.

Undergraduate nursing students may experience high levels of stress, anxiety or depression. This can not only influence their personal wellbeing and academic performance, but also communication with patients during clinical placement and the quality and safety of the healthcare delivered. The objective of the review was to identify interventions that target stress, anxiety or depressed mood in undergraduate nursing students during their undergraduate course. A quantitative systematic review, guided by the Joanna Briggs Institute methodology, was conducted. The review considered studies that included undergraduate nurses, and which evaluated interventions targeting stress, anxiety and depressed mood. The review included experimental studies published in English from 2008 to 2018. A tabulated and narrative summary was utilised to present the results. A total of 1579 studies were identified following a systematic search and 931 studies were screened by title and abstract. A total of 44 studies were critically appraised resulting in 22 studies for inclusion in the systematic review. The studies focused on stress (10 studies), anxiety (14 studies) and depression (7 studies). The majority of the studies (18 of 22) reported a statistically significant reduction in the stress, anxiety or depression experienced by nursing students who participated in interventions targeting these symptoms. Interventions that sought to improve coping management skills, such as mindfulness-based interventions, were most reported. There are a range of effective interventions that target stress, anxiety or depressed mood among nursing students. The quality of the studies reporting these interventions was found to be variable and generally samples were small with limited follow-up. Studies of mindfulness interventions comprised the largest sample sizes, displayed the highest levels of evidence, and transcended stress, anxiety and depressed mood. Future research would benefit from a co-ordinated approach to build the strength of the body of evidence.

Evaluative judgment-i.e., assessing to what degree a stimulus is liked or disliked-is a fundamental aspect of cognition, facilitating comparison and choosing among alternatives, deciding, and prioritizing actions. Neuroimaging studies have shown that evaluative judgment involves the projection of sensory information to the reward circuit. To investigate whether evaluative judgments are based on modality-specific or modality-general attributes, we compared the extent to which balance, contour, symmetry, and complexity affect liking responses in the auditory and visual modalities. We found no significant correlation for any of the four attributes across sensory modalities, except for contour. This suggests that evaluative judgments primarily rely on modality-specific sensory representations elaborated in the brain's sensory cortices and relayed to the reward circuit, rather than abstract modality-general representations. The individual traits art experience, openness to experience, and desire for aesthetics were associated with the extent to which design or compositional attributes influenced liking, but inconsistently across sensory modalities and attributes, also suggesting modality-specific influences.

The Coupling of Pain, Anxiety, and Stress 

Discrimination of anxiety disorders by parent ratings: A study based on the Questionnaire for Anxiety and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorders (FBB-ANZ) 

Strong family ties appear to buffer patient's and family members' difficult experiences during life and health crises. The family participatory dignity therapy programme, a patient-family-centred psychological intervention, was developed based on dignity therapy and performed by one therapist in the form of interview according to a specific question prompt. This study aimed to confirm the efficacy of the family participatory dignity therapy programme in improving the psychological well-being and family cohesion and adaptability of patients with haematologic malignancies and their family caregivers. A single-blinded, two-arm parallel group, randomised controlled trial was conducted. and Participants: Participants were patient-family caregiver dyads recruited from Fujian Medical University Union Hospital from March to September 2019. A total of 68 eligible dyads agreed to participate and were randomly assigned to the intervention group (n = 33) or control group receiving usual care (n = 35). Each pair of patient-family dyads in the intervention group received two or three interviews (each interview approximately lasting 45 to 60 min) performed by one therapist according to a specific question prompt containing 10 questions for patients and 10 corresponding questions for their family caregivers. To evaluate the effects of the intervention, we assessed patients' hope, spiritual well-being, and family cohesion and adaptability, as well as their family caregivers' depression, anxiety, and family cohesion and adaptability at baseline (T0), 1 week (T1), 4 weeks (T2), and 8 weeks post-intervention (T3) and compared the scores between the groups. A two-way repeated-measures analysis of variance was conducted to examine the effects of time, group, and their interaction. For patients, there was a significant difference in hope (p = 0.001), spiritual well-being (p = 0.002), and family cohesion (p<0.001) and adaptability (p<0.001) between the intervention and control groups. The difference over time was also significant in family cohesion (p = 0.018) and adaptability (p = 0.003). The interaction effects were significant for hope (p = 0.034), spiritual well-being (p<0.001), and family cohesion (p<0.001) and adaptability (p<0.001). For family caregivers, there was a significant difference in anxiety (p = 0.037), depression (p = 0.001), and family adaptability (p = 0.036) between the intervention and control groups. Within groups, a significant difference in family adaptability (p = 0.012) was found. Moreover, the interaction effects were significant on anxiety (p = 0.001) and family cohesion (p = 0.038). The family participatory dignity therapy programme showed a positive effect on promoting patients' hope, spiritual well-being, and family cohesion and adaptability; amongst family caregivers, it decreased anxiety and depression, and enhanced family cohesion and adaptability. Registration number: ChiCTR1900021433 Tweetable abstract: The family participatory dignity therapy programme promoted patients' hope, spiritual well-being, and family cohesion and adaptability, decreased their family caregivers' anxiety and depression, and enhanced the caregivers' family cohesion and adaptability.

Outpatient breast cancer treatment after the hospital: what's next? - Adjuvant medical therapies, management of side effects and common fears, planing and coordination of optimal follow-up care in view of current guidelines 

To systematically review the literature about: 'What is the global estimated prevalence of dental fear in adults?'. Inclusion criteria were observational population-based studies reporting the prevalence or raw data of dental fear in adults (>18 years). Five electronic databases (Embase, PubMed, Scopus, Virtual Health Library and Web of Science) were searched without language restrictions up to March 2020. Two researchers independently performed the study selection, data extraction and quality assessment of the included studies. Risk of bias was performed using the Joanna Briggs Critical Appraisal Checklist for Prevalence and Incidence studies. The prevalence pooled estimates of dental fear were calculated using fixed- and random-effect models. Subgroup analyses were performed. The search strategy identified 4,486 studies. After removal of duplicates (1,722), title and abstract screening (2,764) and full-text reading (108), 31 publications were deemed eligible for this systematic review. Three studies presented low risk of bias and 28 studies presented high risk of bias. A total of 72,577 individuals 18 years of age or older composed the sample of this systematic review. The global estimated prevalence of dental fear and anxiety (DFA), high DFA and severe DFA in adults were 15.3 % (95 %CI 10.2-21.2), 12.4 % (95 %CI 9.5-15.6) and 3.3 % (95 %CI 0.9-7.1), respectively. Subgroup analyses showed a higher prevalence of DFA, high DFA and severe DFA among women and younger adults. The instruments used to measure dental fear also affected its prevalence. Dental fear and high dental fear are prevalent in adults worldwide, being more prevalent among women. Evidence suggests fear negatively impacts dental care pattern, clinical and subjective oral health conditions. A better knowledge of the global prevalence and the factors associated with this problem will allow that prevention or even behavior modulation strategies of the fearful individual's in dental setting being carried out.

Abstract. The longitudinal relationship between depression and the risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is uncertain. We examined: (a) the association between depressive symptoms and incident hepatic steatosis (HS), both with and without liver fibrosis; and (b) the influence of obesity on this association. A cohort of 142 005 Korean adults with neither HS nor excessive alcohol consumption at baseline were followed for up to 8.9 years. The validated Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression score (CES-D) was assessed at baseline, and subjects were categorised as non-depressed (a CES-D < 8, reference) or depression (CES-D ⩾ 16). HS was diagnosed by ultrasonography. Liver fibrosis was assessed by the fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4). Parametric proportional hazards models were used to estimate the adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). During a median follow-up of 4.0 years, 27 810 people with incident HS and 134 with incident HS plus high FIB-4 were identified. Compared with the non-depressed category, the aHR (95% CIs) for incident HS was 1.24 (1.15-1.34) for CES-D ⩾ 16 among obese individuals, and 1.00 (0.95-1.05) for CES-D ⩾ 16 among non-obese individuals (p for interaction with obesity <0.001). The aHR (95% CIs) for developing HS plus high FIB-4 was 3.41 (1.33-8.74) for CES-D ⩾ 16 among obese individuals, and 1.22 (0.60-2.47) for CES-D ⩾ 16 among non-obese individuals (p for interaction = 0.201). Depression was associated with an increased risk of incident HS and HS plus high probability of advanced fibrosis, especially among obese individuals.

Despite technological advances and specialist training of neonatal teams, perinatal deaths still occur. Such events are traumatic experiences for the parents and increase the risk of pathological grieving. Nursing is one of the main sources of support. However, the important work of nurses in these situations is made more difficult by the lack of recognized strategies that can be implemented to assist parents and family members in the bereavement process. Identify nursing interventions to help parents of neonates admitted to neonatal intensive care units cope with perinatal loss. A scoping review based on the methodological framework established by Arksey and O'Malley was used. A total of 327 relevant studies were identified through a bibliographic search in Pubmed, CINAHL Plus, APA PsycNET and Scopus between 2000 and 2019. The screening process included an initial analysis of the relevance of the abstract and, when required, an extensive review of the full paper. A total of 9 papers were finally selected which responded to the research question. All nine papers are from the USA and have different methodological characteristics. A number of effective interventions were identified, including legacy creation, support groups, family-centred accompaniment and follow-up, parental involvement in pre-mortem care, intergenerational bereavement programmes, and the use of technological and spiritual resources. In general, the scant evidence that is available about nursing interventions around perinatal bereavement care underlines the requirement to thoroughly assess the effectiveness of those that have already been designed and implemented. This scoping review contributes to the potential implementation of effective interventions to deal with and help parents and family members cope with perinatal bereavement, with nursing staff as the main source of support and leading interventions which have family members in the care team. This review also makes a substantial contribution to the development of a practical and evidence-based clinical guide for nursing, with recommendations that can be adapted to effective quality care criteria. It is additionally intended to encourage visibility in health policies of care and attention to perinatal grief in neonatal intensive care units.

The present study was conducted to evaluate the prevalence of depression in Iranian children. This meta-analysis was registered in PROSPERO with code (CRD42020216632) and performed based on the MOOSE protocol and PRISMA guidelines. Title and abstract of articles were searched without time limit until April 2020 in international databases PubMed/Medline, Scopus, Embase, Science Direct, Cochrane Library, CINAHL, EBSCO, Web of Science, Google Scholar, and Iranian databases. In 34 studies with a sample size of 23,779 Iranian children, the prevalence of depression was estimated 42.3 % (95 %CI: 34.9-50.0). Prevalence of depression in girls in 20 studies with a sample size of 11,170 was estimated 42.1 % (95 %CI: 32.7-52.1) and the prevalence of depression in males in 20 studies with a sample size of 4678 was estimated 29.6 % (95 %CI: 21.2-39.7). The odds ratio of female to male depression was 1.33 (95 %CI: 1.07-1.65, P < 0.011). Prevalence of mild, moderate, major and deep depression was 20.3 % (95 %CI: 16.4-24.9), 15.0 % (95 %CI: 11.3-19.7), 14.5 % (95 %CI: 10.8-19.1), and 4.3 % (95 %CI: 1.8-9.8), respectively. In subgroup analysis for prevalence of depression in Iranian children, the variables of geographical area (P = 0.258), quality of studies (P = 0.186), type of questionnaire (P = 0.907), sample size (P = 0.500) and year of studies (P = 0.538) were not significant, but subgroup analysis of province (P < 0.001) and school grade (P < 0.001) were significant. The results of the present meta-analysis showed that depression is common in Iranian children and is much higher than global estimates. These findings emphasize the importance of identifying and providing treatment to children who are most in need.

Using abstract concepts is a hallmark of human cognition. While multiple kinds of abstract concepts exist, they so far have been conceived as a unitary kind in opposition to concrete ones. Here, we focus on Institutional concepts, like justice or norm, investigating their fine-grained differences with respect to other kinds of abstract and concrete concepts, and exploring whether their representation varies according to individual proficiency. Specifically, we asked experts and non-experts in the legal field to evaluate four kinds of concepts (i.e., institutional, theoretical, food, artefact) on 16 dimensions: abstractness-concreteness; imageability; contextual availability; familiarity; age of acquisition; modality of acquisition; social valence; social metacognition; arousal; valence; interoception; metacognition; perceptual modality strength; body-object interaction; mouth and hand involvement. Results showed that Institutional concepts rely more than other categories on linguistic/social and inner experiences and are primarily characterized by positive valence. In addition, a more subtle characterization of the institutional domain emerged: Pure-institutional concepts (e.g., parliament) were perceived as more similar to technical tools, while Meta-institutional concepts (e.g., validity) were characterized mainly by abstract components. Importantly, for what concerns individual proficiency, we found that the level of expertise affects conceptual representation. Only law-experts associated Institutional concepts with exteroceptive and emotional experiences, showing also a more grounded and situated representation of the two types of institutional concepts. Overall, our finding highlights the richness and flexibility of abstract concepts and suggests that they differ in the degree of embodiment and grounding. Implications of the results for current theories of conceptual representation and social institutions are discussed.

The aim of this study was to identify interventions targeting children and their caregivers to reduce psychosocial problems in the course of the COVID-19 pandemic and comparable outbreaks. The review was performed using systematic literature searches in MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and COVID-19-specific databases, including the CDC COVID-19 Research Database, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Global Database on COVID-19 Research and the Cochrane COVID-19 Study Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the EU Clinical Trials Register and the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS) up to 25th September 2020. The search yielded 6657 unique citations. After title/abstract and full text screening, 11 study protocols reporting on trials planned in China, the US, Canada, the UK, and Hungary during the COVID-19 pandemic were included. Four interventions targeted children ≥10 years directly, seven system-based interventions targeted the parents and caregivers of younger children and adolescents. Outcome measures encompassed mainly anxiety and depressive symptoms, different dimensions of stress or psychosocial well-being, and quality of supportive relationships. In conclusion, this systematic review revealed a paucity of studies on psychosocial interventions for children during the COVID-19 pandemic. Further research should be encouraged in light of the expected demand for child mental health management.

Anxiety has been identified as one of the most severe and long-lasting symptoms experienced by hospitalized children with cancer. Self-reports are especially important for documenting emotional and abstract concepts, such as anxiety. Children may not always be able to communicate their symptoms due to language difficulties, a lack of developmental language skills, or the severity of their illness. Instruments with sufficient psychometric quality and pictorial support may address this communication challenge. The purpose of this review was to systematically search the published literature and identify validated and reliable self-report instruments available for children aged 5-18 years to use in the assessment of their anxiety to ensure they receive appropriate anxiety-relief intervention in hospital. What validated self-report instruments can children with cancer use to self-report anxiety in the hospital setting? Which of these instruments offer pictorial support? Eight instruments were identified, but most of the instruments lacked pictorial support. The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL™) 3.0 Brain Tumor Module and Cancer Module proved to be useful in hospitalized children with cancer, as they provide pictorial support. It is recommended that faces or symbols be used along with the VAS, as pictures are easily understood by younger children. Future studies could include the adaptation of existing instruments in digital e-health tools.

Among patients with cancer, depression is still under-detected. The use of technology-assisted screening tools is rising; however, little is known about the uptake of these devices as depression screening tools among patients with cancer. A systematic review will be conducted using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P). The review is registered with PROSPERO and any adjustments to the protocol will be traced. The aims of this systematic review are to (1) identify the most common and feasible depression screening information technology (IT) delivery models among patients with cancer, (2) identify the most common depression screening instrument used in IT devices and (3) describe the published technology-assisted depression screening tools for patients with cancer. PubMed, EBSCOhost and Google Scholar databases will be used. PICO (Patient/Population, Intervention, Comparison, Outcomes) guidelines will inform the inclusion criteria. Two researchers will independently review titles and abstracts, followed by full article review and data extraction. In the case of a disagreement, a third reviewer will make the final decision. Title/abstract screening will be conducted using a screening tool prepared by the researchers. Articles will be included for review if: (1) the study includes patients with cancer, cancer survivors and/or patients on remission, (2) depression is screened using technology and (3) technology-assisted depression screening effectiveness, efficacy, feasibility and/or acceptance is addressed. The quality of the articles will be assessed using the Methodological Index For Non-Randomised Studies (MINORS, maximum score 24) through independent coding of reviewers. This research is exempt from ethics approval given that this is a protocol for a systematic review, which uses published data. Findings from this review will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and scientific conferences. PROSPERO registration number CRD42019121048.

Mental processes are recognized to be embodied, hence dependent upon functions of the body. Interoception (i.e., the sense of the internal bodily physiology) underpinning motivational states and emotional feelings, however, are mostly ignored within present sensory-motor accounts of embodiment. The inclusion of interoception within models of embodiment is important both for health psychology and for theories of cognition. Here, we deduce that reference to visceral organs, in language describing emotion concepts, should be viewed as metonymy (i.e., the mental mapping wherein a component is used to describe the whole), rather than metaphor (i.e., one familiar and concrete concept used to describe another unfamiliar and/or abstract concept that shares some similarities). This view contrasts with a dominant assumption within cognitive linguistics. We further argue that conceptual differences in the assumption about the body-mind-emotion relationship or emotional somatization, evident when comparing Chinese to standard English, is culturally and cognitively determined (e.g., by divergent Western and Chinese philosophical, medical traditions and meaning systems). We propose a new model in which two contending variables, bodily transparency and cognitive granularity, define cultural differences in emotion conceptualization, capturing the dynamic multidimensional interaction between body, mind, brain, language, and society.

The colour-word Stroop task produces both information conflict (detection of the ink colour vs word meaning) and task conflict (respond to the ink colour vs read the word). In this study, we measured both reaction time and pupil dilation, and the neutral stimuli in our study were non-readable letter strings as well as meaningless non-readable stimuli (i.e., coloured patches and abstract character strings). Our results showed slowest responses in the incongruent trials and fastest responses in the congruent trials. However, no differences were found between the investigated neutrals. In contrast, pupil dilation was largest in the incongruent trials and smallest in the neutral trials. Moreover, the more the neutral stimuli were meaningless, the less the pupil dilation that was observed. Our results suggest that non-word meaningless stimuli reduced task conflict (compared with all the investigated conditions). Neutral equivalence should be taken into consideration in Stroop and Stroop-like tasks.

Threat generalization to novel instances is central to adaptive behavior. Most previous work has investigated threat generalization based on the perceptual similarity between past and novel stimuli. Few studies have explored generalization based on abstract, non-perceptual relations despite their importance for cognitive flexibility. In order to measure such rule-based generalization of threat without perceptual similarity, we developed a novel paradigm that prevents perceptual features from gaining predictive value. Our results demonstrate that participants responded according to the correct abstract rule and used it to successfully generalize their anticipatory behavioral threat responses (expectancy ratings, sudomotor nerve activity, and heart rate responses). Our results further show that participants flexibly adapted their responses to an unsignaled mid-session contingency reversal. We interpret our results in the context of other rule-based generalization tasks and argue that variations of our paradigm make possible a wide range of investigations into the conceptual aspects of threat generalization.

Although the efficacy of self-help cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for depression has been well established, its feasibility in primary care settings is limited because of time and resource constraints. The goal of this study was to identify common elements of empirically supported (i.e., proven effective in controlled research) self-help CBTs and frameworks for effective use in practice. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for self-help CBTs for depression in primary care were systematically identified in Pubmed, PsycINFO, and CENTRAL. The distillation and matching model approach was used to abstract commonly used self-help techniques (practice elements). Study contexts associated with unique combinations of intervention elements were explored, including total human support dose (total face-to-face, telephone, and personalized email contact time recommended by the protocol), effective symptom domain (depression vs. general psychological distress), and severity of depression targeted by the study. Relative contribution to intervention success was estimated for individual elements and human support by conditional probability (CP, proportion of the number of times each element appeared in a successful intervention to the number of times it was used in the interventions identified by the review). Twenty-one interventions (12 successful) in 20 RCTs and 21 practice elements were identified. Cognitive restructuring, behavioral activation, and homework assignment were elements appearing in > 80% of successful interventions. The dose of human support was positively associated with the proportion of interventions that were successful in a significant linear fashion (CPs: interventions with no support, 0.20; 1-119 min of support, 0.60; 120 min of support, 0.83; p = 0.042). In addition, human support increased the probability of success for most of the extracted elements. Only social support activation, homework assignment, and interpersonal skills were highly successful (CPs ≥ 0.60) when minimal support was provided. These findings suggest that human support is an important component in creating an evidence-informed brief self-help program compatible with primary care settings.

The meaning in life consists of an individual's values, experiences, goals and beliefs. It has been shown to be negatively associated with depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. Depression and hopelessness are related to increased suicidal ideation. Meaning in life has been shown to be a protective factor against depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. A path model was developed to clarify the associations among meaning in life, depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. For clarity, the outcomes were depression and suicidal ideation, the independent variable was hopelessness, and the mediator was meaning in life. Hopelessness had a direct association with meaning in life, and meaning in life had a direct association with depression, supporting the mediating effect of meaning in life from hopelessness to depression. Meaning in life had the strongest association with depression, and depression had the strongest association with suicidal ideation. Meaning in life did not have a significant direct association with suicidal ideation; it did have an indirect association with suicidal ideation through depression. This study estimated that one-point increase in meaning in life score was associated with 0.47-point decrease in depression score and 0.13-point decrease in suicidal ideation score, respectively. Logotherapy is a meaning-centred therapy to find meaning in life. This study reveals that increased levels of meaning in life are associated with decreasing degrees of depression. Mental health nurses could help patients to find meaning in life by logotherapy and thus associated with reductions in depression. Mental health nurses could help patients to find hope by exploring meaning in life and promoting positive attitudes towards life from meaningless life to meaningful life, there is a reduction in depression, which in turn reduces suicidal ideation indirectly. Introduction Meaning in life can be good protective factor against depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. Aim To analyse the mediating effect of meaning in life on the associations among hopelessness, depression and suicidal ideation. Method A cross-sectional study was conducted among 90 patients diagnosed with depression. A structural equation modelling approach was applied for this path analysis to examine the mediating effect of meaning in life on the association among hopelessness, depression and suicidal ideation. Results The results showed that meaning in life mediated the association between hopelessness and depression. Hopelessness had a direct positive association with depression (β = 0.23, p < .03), and meaning in life had a direct negative association with depression (β = -0.51, p < .01) and indirect association with suicidal ideation through depression; this indirect association was -0.21 (p < .01). Discussion Meaning in life revealed strong mediating association with the relationship between hopelessness and depression. By reducing the level of depression, meaning in life demonstrated its mediator association with suicidal ideation. Implications for Practice Logotherapy is a meaning-centred therapy to find meaning in life. Mental health nurses could help patients to manage their depression through logotherapy, thus leading to reductions in suicidal ideation.

To explore whether a support-based intervention for informal caregivers of people with heart failure changes their psychosocial and emotional wellbeing. Background Successful self-management of heart failure includes addressing the psychosocial and emotional wellbeing needs of informal caregivers. However, there is limited evidence of how caregivers are supported in this way. A rapid review was conducted searching four electronic databases with restrictions to dates January 1996 - September 2019. Specific inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied, and the first author reviewed articles based on title, abstract and then full text, before articles were assessed for conclusions and outcomes. Six studies met the criteria for review. The key caregiver outcomes were burden, depression/anxiety, and quality of life. Significant reductions in caregiver burden were demonstrated in the three studies that measured this outcome. There were mixed results for the outcome measures of depression/anxiety, as well as quality of life, with some interventions demonstrating either significant reductions in depression or anxiety scores, or increases in quality of life scores. With only six studies included in this rapid review, it is not possible to make any definitive conclusions regarding the success, or otherwise, of interventions for caregivers of people with heart failure to improve their psychosocial and emotional wellbeing. Whilst some papers would tend to suggest that such interventions can reduce caregiver burden, there is a need to interrogate further interventions in this area to fill the current gap in the literature.

Recently published works suggest that prolonged pacifier use affects abstract word processing later in life. Using the pacifier beyond age 3 years affects the conceptual relations used to define the meaning of words at age 6 years. Similarly, when semantically categorizing a set of abstract, concrete and emotional words, children aged 8 years who used the pacifier for a longer period of time were slower to process abstract stimuli, but not concrete and emotional ones. The children of these studies had typical development and no diagnosis of cognitive or linguistic disorders. These results, although correlational, suggest a possible relationship between extended use of a pacifier and the development of language skills, particularly for abstract words. The first goal of this theoretical work is to outline current evidence suggesting an association between prolonged pacifier use and the processing of abstract words. The second goal is to propose an account of the effect of Age of Pacifier Withdrawal (APW) within the DIVA neurocomputational model of speech development and production (Guenther & Vladusich, 2013). Using the pacifier during social interaction for a longer period might impede the processing of proprioceptive information and speech-motor programs (i.e., by limiting the co-articulation of speech, it could inhibit the building and consolidation of speech-motor articulatory gestures) as well as auditory input (because the child receives inaccurate input about his/her own speech). Thus, it seems useful to explore the auditory speech representation of children who use a pacifier beyond 3 years of age. We suggest that after the first year of life pacifier use should be impeded during social interaction and limited to use at bed time.

Anxiety commonly occurs among youth on the autism spectrum, yet measurement of anxiety in this population is complicated by a number of factors, including potentially overlapping symptomatology, the child's intellectual functioning, and changes in anxiety across development. Moreover, few studies have examined the psychometric properties of anxiety measures in this population, and no study to date has tested whether there are systematic differences in the measurement of anxiety, or differential item functioning (DIF), across the high degree of heterogeneity and the developmental course of autism. To test this possibility, data were combined across multiple studies using the National Database for Autism Research, an NIH-funded data repository. Parent-report on the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Disorders (SCARED) and Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ) were used as measures of anxiety and autism features, respectively. A confirmatory factor analysis indicated good fit of the literature standard five-factor structure. Moderated nonlinear factor analysis (MNLFA) revealed multiple items with intercept and loading DIF based on level of autism features, IQ, and age, especially for items related to social behavior. Therefore, although the measure's factor structure is consistent with that found in the general population, the SCARED may not capture differences in anxiety equivalently for all children on the spectrum and across their development. Clinicians and researchers need to be especially vigilant in measuring anxiety symptoms in children with autism by removing items flagged for DIF from the SCARED and/or by using multiple measures and informants. LAY ABSTRACT: Autistic youth often experience clinical levels of anxiety. Many tools used to measure anxiety were developed for the general population, but not for use with autistic youth. This study found that the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Disorders (SCARED) measures the same five dimensions of anxiety as in the general population. Parents, however, may respond differently to questions on the SCARED based on their child's autism features, intellectual functioning, and age, which impacts our ability to accurately measure anxiety among autistic youth.

How do nurses experience and interpret the screening of hospitalised cancer patients by means of the distress thermometer? - A qualitative study 

An Itching Pleasure 

As the number of diagnosed adults living with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) continues to grow, a lack of resources and lack of available interventions exacerbate their low quality of life, including low levels of education and employment, and high levels of co-morbid anxiety and depression. Here we build upon existing research showing the effectiveness of contemplative interventions on individuals with ASD, to provide a low-cost biofeedback-enhanced training which can be implemented by non-professional staff, and may help autistic individuals grasp abstract contemplative techniques. We hypothesize that the intervention will decrease participants' anxiety and autism symptoms, and increase their self-awareness, self-determination, and empathy. Fourteen adults with ASD, residing in assisted living, were provided with 16 weekly half-hour contemplative-biofeedback sessions with non-professional trainers, in which they learned to reduce their arousal levels through combined biofeedback and contemplative techniques, and apply those to everyday life. Quantitative and qualitative data was collected pre- and post-intervention, to determine changes in participants' self-awareness, self-determination, anxiety, autism symptoms, and empathy. Participants were capable of successfully improving their physiological arousal levels on the biofeedback setup, indicating feasibility of the technique. Further, we found initial indications for reduction in autism symptoms and increased self-determination. Qualitative reports by participants and counselors revealed that participants applied the techniques in many real-life situations, and these had far-ranging effects on their emotional regulation, work and social motivation, and self-determination. The study provides proof-of-concept for a low-cost, community-based intervention which can ameliorate the lives of adults with ASD.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Fibromyalgia (FM) is a syndrome of chronic widespread pain, typically associated with fatigue, sleep, cognitive dysfunction and disordered mood. FM may limit an individual's ability to participate in everyday work and social activities, thereby making it difficult to maintain normal relationships with other individuals. While it has been studied in different populations and settings, the impact of FM and associated psychological factors has not been previously studied among female war refugees. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The study showed the high impact of FM on female refugees in Jordan; approximately three quarters of the participants had a moderate to severe FM impact. Refugees settled in Irbid city, Iraq, showed increased age, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder correlated with a higher FM impact. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The study recommends evaluation of the impact of FM among all female refugees living in Jordan, along with its neighbouring countries hosting refugees. Healthcare providers, including mental health nurses, should be aware of the role of PTSD and anxiety on the impact of FM. Accordingly, healthcare workers should design appropriate mental health treatment plans to help to decrease the impact of FM. Mental health nurses should evaluate FM impact among all refugees worldwide. Nurses in Jordan are recommended to share their experience with nurses outside of Jordan as this may help with funds being obtained and the implementation of advanced psychological interventions. INTRODUCTION: Fibromyalgia (FM) is a syndrome of chronic widespread pain. While it has been studied in different populations and settings, the impact of FM and its associated psychological factors has not been previously studied among female war refugees. To assess the impact of FM and its associated factors in female refugees. A cross-sectional study was conducted. The impact of FM, anxiety, post-traumatic stress (PTSD) and insomnia was investigated. 288 refugees previously diagnosed with FM were recruited. The results showed that 73.62% of the participants had a moderate to severe FM impact. Refugees settled in Irbid city were six times more likely to have a higher FM impact than refugees settled in Zarqa, and Iraqi refugees were more likely to have a higher impact than Syrian. Increased age, anxiety and PTSD were correlated with a greater impact. Mental health nursing services should be directed towards female refugees, particularly those with increased age, anxiety and PTSD. Mental health nurses should evaluate the FM impact among all refugees worldwide. Furthermore, nurses in Jordan are recommended to share their experiences with nurses outside of Jordan, as this may help to raise funds and implement advanced psychological interventions.

The present research investigated facial mimicry of the basic emotions joy, anger, and sadness in response to stimuli in different formats. Specifically, in an electromyography study, 120 participants rated the expressions of joyful, angry, and sad faces presented as photographs or stick figures while facial muscle activity was measured. Using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches to hypothesis testing, we found strong support for a facial mimicry effect: Participants showed higher zygomaticus major and orbicularis oculi activity (smiling) towards joyful faces, while they showed higher corrugator supercilii activity (frowning) towards angry and sad faces. Although participants rated the stick figures as more abstract and less interesting stimuli, the mimicry effect was equally strong and independent of the format in which the faces were presented (photographs or stick figures). Additionally, participants showed enhanced emotion recognition for stick figures compared to photographs, which, however, was unrelated to mimicry. The findings suggest that facial mimicry occurs in response to stimuli varying in their abstractness and might be more robust to social-cognitive influences than previously assumed.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Evaluate the anti-hostility effects of available atypical antipsychotic agents. In addition to hallucinations and delusions, persons with schizophrenia may exhibit hostility. In clinical trials of antipsychotics, hostility is routinely measured as part of rating scales such as the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale or Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale. The availability of the atypical antipsychotic clozapine in 1989 led to the observation that it is possible to have a treatment effect on hostility that is independent of the treatment effect on hallucinations or delusions, and independent of general sedative effects. The data supporting this notion of a specific anti-hostility effect are the most robust for clozapine as the data include specifically designed randomized, controlled clinical trials. A specific anti-hostility effect is also observable to various degrees with most of the other atypical antipsychotics, as evidenced in post hoc analyses of clinical trials originally conducted for regulatory purposes, supplemented by post hoc analyses of large effectiveness trials. The generalizability of these studies, however, may be limited. Participants in these trials were not selected for aggressive and hostile behavior. Some of the studies also excluded patients with substance use disorders. The latter is particularly important because alcohol and substance use are well known to increase risk for hostility and aggression. Nevertheless, the repeated demonstrations of the specificity of an anti-hostility effect (in terms of statistical independence of effects on other positive symptoms and of sedation) are of potential clinical importance.

The article aims at analysing online depression forums enabling lay reinterpretation and criticism of expert biomedical discourses. Firstly, two contrasting interpretations of depression are reconstructed: expert psy-discourses are confronted with the phenomenological descriptions of lay experiences, with a special emphasis on online forums as empirical platforms hosting such debates. After clarifying the general theoretical stakes concerning contested 'depression narratives', the results of an online ethnography are introduced: the main topics appearing in online discussions are summarised (analysing how the abstract tensions between lay and expert discourses appear in the actual discussions), along with the idealtypical discursive logics (analysing pragmatic advises, attempts of reframing self-narratives and expressions of unconditional recognition). Finally, based on these analyses an attempt is made to explore the latent functionality of online depression forums by referring to a secular 'ritual healing' existing as an unreflected, contingent potential.

The aims of this review were to map and summarize data currently available about 1) key dimensions of eating pleasure; 2) associations of eating pleasure, and its key dimensions, with dietary and health outcomes and 3) the most promising intervention strategies using eating pleasure to promote healthy eating. Using the scoping review methodology, a comprehensive search of the peer-reviewed literature (Medline, PsycInfo, Embase, ERIC, Web of Science, CINAHL, ABI/Inform global and Sociology Abstract) and of the grey literature (ProQuest Dissertations & Theses and Google) was carried out by two independent reviewers. We included 119 of the 28,908 studies found. In total, 89 sub-dimensions of eating pleasure were grouped into 22 key dimensions. The most frequently found related to sensory experiences (in 50.9% of the documents), social experiences (42.7%), food characteristics besides sensory attributes (27.3%), food preparation process (19.1%), novelty (16.4%), variety (14.5%), mindful eating (13.6%), visceral eating (12.7%), place where food is consumed (11.8%) and memories associated with eating (10.9%). Forty-five studies, mostly cross-sectional (62.2%), have documented links between eating pleasure and dietary and/or health outcomes. Most studies (57.1%) reported favorable associations between eating pleasure and dietary outcomes. For health outcomes, results were less consistent. The links between eating pleasure and both dietary and health outcomes varied according to the dimensions of eating pleasure studied. Finally, results from 11 independent interventions suggested that strategies focusing on sensory experiences, cooking and/or sharing activities, mindful eating, and positive memories related to healthy food may be most promising. Thus, eating pleasure may be an ally in the promotion of healthy eating. However, systematically developed, evidence-based interventions are needed to better understand how eating pleasure may be a lever for healthy eating.

To understand the complexities surrounding unexplained stillbirth for the development and implementation of culturally acceptable interventions to underpin care in Tanzania and Zambia. Mixed-methods study. Tertiary, secondary and primary care facilities in Mansa, Zambia, and Mwanza, Tanzania. Quantitative: 1997 women giving birth at two tertiary care facilities (one in each country). Qualitative: 48 women and 19 partners from tertiary, secondary and primary care facilities. Case review using data from a target of 2000 consecutive case records. Qualitative interviews with a purposive sample of women and partners, using a grounded theory approach. A total of 261 stillbirths were recorded, with a rate of 16% in Tanzania and 10% in Zambia, which is higher than the previous estimates of 2.24 and 2.09%, respectively, for those countries. Women in both countries who reported a previous stillbirth were more likely to have stillbirth (RR 1.86, 95% CI 1.23-2.81). The cause of death was unexplained in 28% of cases. Qualitative findings indicated that not knowing what caused the baby to be stillborn prevented women from grieving. This was compounded by the poor communication skills of health professionals, who displayed little empathy and skill when counselling bereaved families. The stillbirth risk in both facilities was far higher than the risk recorded from national data, with women reporting a previous stillbirth being at higher risk. Women want to know the cause of stillbirth and an exploration of appropriate investigations in this setting is required. Providing health professionals with support and continuing training is key to improving the experiences of women and future care. Stillbirths receive little investigation and are often unexplained. Communication with women about the death of their baby is limited.

We explore dance video clip stimuli as a means to test human observers' accuracy in detecting genuine emotional expressivity in full-body movements. Stimuli of every-day-type full-body expressions of emotions usually use culturally very recognizable actions (e.g. fist shaking for anger, etc). However, expressive dance movement stimuli can be created to contain fully abstract movements. The expressivity results from subtle variations in the body movements of the expressor, and emotions cannot be recognised by observers via particular actions (e.g. fist shaking, etc). Forty-one participants watched and rated 24 pairs of short dance videos -from a published normalised dance stimuli library- in randomised order (N = 48). Of each carefully matched pair, one version of the full-body movement sequence had been danced to be emotionally genuinely expressive (clip a), while the other version of the same sequence (clip b) had been danced -while technically correct- without any emotional expressivity. Participants rated (i) expressivity (to test their accuracy; block 1), and (ii) how much they liked each movement (an implicit measure to test their emotional response ("liking"); block 2). Participants rated clips that were intended to be expressive as more expressive (part 1: expressivity ratings), and liked those expressive clips more than the non-expressive clips (part 2: liking ratings). Besides, their galvanic skin response differed, depending on the category of clips they were watching (expressive vs. non-expressive), and this relationship was modulated by interceptive accuracy and arts experience. Results are discussed in relation to the Body Precision Hypothesis and the Hypothesis of Constructed Emotion.

The transtheoretical model is a health behavior model used to understand an individual's readiness to change their behavior. This study aims to apply the transtheoretical model in understanding a person with stroke's readiness to change their activity level, as it relates to physical capacity, physical health, depressive symptoms, self-efficacy, and daily stepping activity. This was a cross-sectional analysis of baseline data from a clinical trial. Participants' readiness to change their activity levels was measured via self-report and daily stepping activity was measured using a step activity monitor. Robust regression (M-estimation with robust standard errors) was used to test the relationship between readiness to change and measures of physical capacity (6-minute walk test, self-selected walking speed), physical health (body mass index, age-adjusted Charlson Comorbidity Index), depressive symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), self-efficacy (Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale), and daily stepping (steps per day). A total of 274 individuals were included in the analysis. Adjusted for age, readiness to change was positively related to daily stepping (β = 0.29, P < 0.001) and negatively related to depressive symptoms (β = -0.13, P = 0.01). Readiness to change was not significantly associated with measures of physical capacity, physical health, or self-efficacy. These results suggest that individuals with stroke in the later stages of change may demonstrate greater daily stepping activity and lower depressive symptoms compared with those in earlier stages. Understanding the relationship between readiness to change, daily stepping, and depressive symptoms will help clinicians implement appropriate stage-specific intervention strategies and facilitate greater improvement in activity levels.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see the Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A333).

The COVID-19 pandemic has interrupted everyday life virtually everywhere in the world, enabling real-life research on threat-and-defense processes. In a survey conducted within the first days of implementing social distancing measures in Austria and Germany, we aimed to explore the pathways from threat perception to preferences of defense strategies. We found that anxiety, approach-related affect, and reactance were specifically elicited by motivational (vs. epistemic) discrepancies. In a second step, we tested the mediating effect of anxiety, approach-related affect, and reactance on preferences regarding personal-social and concrete-abstract defenses. Experiencing anxiety was related to interest in security-related actions, and approach-affect was related to both personal projects and social media use. Participants experiencing reactance were more inclined to pursue personal projects (personal-abstract) and less interested in security-related (personal-concrete) actions. They also showed marginally lower system justification (social-abstract). Additionally, we examined the relationship of loneliness with defense strategies, showing that loneliness was associated with lower system justification and security behaviors. The results suggest that individuals deal with threat in their own ways, mostly depending on affective state and motivational orientation: Anxiety was related to security, approach-state to action (both social and personal), reactance to derogation of the system and disregard for security, while loneliness was associated with inaction.

The experience of being emotionally "moved" is considered a valuable emotional experience. Although pleasant chills (goosebumps and shivers) and tears (weeping and a lump in the throat) are commonly associated with the experience of being emotionally moved, no previous studies have examined which of these psychophysiological responses is the most intrinsic to the phenomenon of being moved. We conducted two music listening experiments to examine this question. Both experiments revealed that, when chills and tears were reliably separated, chills evoked phasic increases in electrodermal activity, whereas tears induced phasic decreases in heart and respiration rate during tonic physiological arousal. Importantly, whereas tears predicted the experience of being moved, experiencing chills did not. Furthermore, psychoacoustic features of music did not explain the physiological response of chills and tears. The results demonstrated that the experience of being moved involved a sense of pleasure coupled with psychophysiological relief from tension. Based on extended attachment theory, the sequential process of physiological arousal to physiological calming, which is derived from abstract life-guiding ideas via the combination of sound and lyrics, may be important for evoking the experience of being emotionally moved. These psychophysiological characteristics could explain why people seek to be moved.

Background and purpose - There is ongoing debate as to whether commercial funding influences reporting of medical studies. We asked: Is there a difference in reported tones between abstracts, introductions, and discussions of orthopedic journal studies that were commercially funded and those that were not commercially funded?Methods - We conducted a systematic PubMed search to identify commercially funded studies published in 20 orthopedic journals between January 1, 2000 and December 1, 2019. We identified commercial funding of studies by including in our search the names of 10 medical device companies with the largest revenue in 2019. Commercial funding was designated when either the study or 1 or more of the authors received funding from a medical device company directly related to the content of the study. We matched 138 commercially funded articles 1 to 1 with 138 non-commercially funded articles with the same study design, published in the same journal, within a time range of 5 years. The IBM Watson Tone Analyzer was used to determine emotional tones (anger, fear, joy, and sadness) and language style (analytical, confident, and tentative).Results - For abstract and introduction sections, we found no differences in reported tones between commercially funded and non-commercially funded studies. Fear tones (non-commercially funded studies 5.1%, commercially funded studies 0.7%, p = 0.04), and analytical tones (non-commercially funded studies 95%, commercially funded studies 88%, p = 0.03) were more common in discussions of studies that were not commercially funded.Interpretation - Commercially funded studies have comparable tones to non-commercially funded studies in the abstract and introduction. In contrast, the discussion of non-commercially funded studies demonstrated more fear and analytical tones, suggesting them to be more tentative, accepting of uncertainty, and dispassionate. As text analysis tools become more sophisticated and mainstream, it might help to discern commercial bias in scientific reports.

Reports an error in "Smile pretty and watch your back: Personal safety anxiety and vigilance in objectification theory" by Rachel M. Calogero, Tracy L. Tylka, Jaclyn A. Siegel, Afroditi Pina and Tomi-Ann Roberts (

The present research examines the influence of different processing modes (abstract vs. concrete) on the intensity of negative basic emotions (anger, fear) and self-conscious emotions (guilt, shame). We suggest that the cognitive appraisals underlying self-conscious emotions are relatively more abstract and less concrete than the appraisals underlying basic emotions. Consequently, we predicted that abstract processing would increase the intensity of self-conscious emotions and decrease the intensity of basic emotions, whereas concrete processing would increase the intensity of basic emotions and decrease the intensity of self-conscious emotions. We tested this prediction in four experiments. In Experiments 1 and 2, concrete processing led to more intense anger than abstract processing, and abstract processing led to more intense guilt than concrete processing. In Experiment 3a, concrete processing increased the intensity of fear, and in Experiment 3b, concrete processing decreased the intensity of shame. Our findings highlight the importance of considering the emotion's underlying appraisals when reflecting on one's emotional experience.

While there is increasing evidence for the effectiveness of psychosocial support programs for cancer patients, little attention has been paid to creativity or art as a way of addressing their psychological problems and improving quality of life. This review provides an overview of interventional studies that investigate the effects of art therapy interventions on anxiety, depression, and quality of life in adults with cancer. We conducted a literature review with a systematic search. The databases PubMed/MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and EMBASE were searched for articles on art therapy among adult (18 years and above) cancer patients, published between September 2009 up to September 2019. Search terms were established for each database specifically. A total of 731 publications was assessed for relevance by title and abstract. The remaining 496 articles were examined using three inclusion criteria: interventions were guided by an artist or art therapist, participants were actively involved in the creative process, and anxiety, depression, and/or quality of life were included as outcome measures. Methodological quality of the included studies was appraised using specific checklists. Seven papers met the inclusion criteria. Data was extracted from three non-randomized intervention studies and four randomized controlled trials. All studies used a quantitative design with validated outcome measures. Four articles described positive effects of art therapy on anxiety, depression, or quality of life in adults with cancer. Art therapy could possibly help decrease symptoms of anxiety and depression, and improve quality of life in adult cancer patients. However, because of the heterogeneity of the interventions and limited methodological quality of the studies, further research using stringent methods is needed.

[No Abstract Available].

Attentional manipulations have been shown to influence subsequent evaluations of objects and images. For example, images used as distractors in a visual search task are subsequently rated more negatively than are target images. One powerful manipulation of attention occurs when we plan and execute movements toward objects in our environment. Here, in two experiments, we show that selective attention to real-world objects subsequently improves emotional appraisal of those objects-an effect we term "target appreciation." Participants were presented with abstract images on three-dimensional objects, and were cued to either reach and grasp one of the two objects, or to respond to the cued object with a keyboard. Images presented on target objects were appraised more positively when compared with novel images. In contrast, images associated with obstacles or distractor objects were not appraised differently than novel images, despite the attentional suppression thought to be required to successfully avoid or ignore these objects. We speculate that this automatic appreciation of the objects of selective attention may be adaptive for organisms acting in complex environments.

One mechanism by which acute psychosocial stress effects health-related cognitions and behaviors is through changes in the level of mental abstraction when processing information. However, it is unclear whether levels of mental abstraction would be higher or lower after an acute psychosocial stressor. This research examined acute psychosocial stress's impact on levels of mental abstraction. Randomized between-subjects experimental design. A diverse sample of 164 undergraduate students aged 18-24 years old were randomly assigned to an acute psychosocial stressor or non-stressful control condition. Blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), and negative affect were monitored throughout the study and mental abstraction was measured at the end of each condition. Mental abstraction was statistically significantly higher (i.e., more abstract) after the stress condition than after the control condition ( Acute psychosocial stress is associated with higher levels of mental abstraction after the stressor. These findings may have implications for stress-relevant interventions as accounting for the level of mental abstraction may enhance the efficacy of the intervention.

What is the central question of this study? What is the effect in male and female offspring of a protein-deficient diet producing intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) in maternal mice on morphometric, metabolic and behavioural parameters before and after a challenge with a fat diet? What is the main finding and its importance? Male and female mice presented different growth trajectories after birth. IUGR favoured increased adiposity in male mice, and high-fat diet-induced anxiety-like behaviour in female mice. As there is sexual dimorphism in the response to maternal manipulations, we aimed to analyse the effects of intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) in both sexes on morphometric, metabolic and behavioural parameters throughout postnatal development, and after challenge with a hyperlipidic diet. Female Swiss mice (n = 59) were distributed into two groups (SD: standard diet, n = 26; and PDD: isocaloric protein-deficient diet, n = 33), 2 weeks before mating and during the gestational period. After birth, offspring from SD and PDD dams were cross-fostered and nurtured by SD dams until postnatal day (PND) 28. At PND 60 all animals were challenged with a hypercaloric diet for 4 weeks. Offspring birth weight was significantly reduced in the PDD group compared to the SD group (P = 0.0001), but only male offspring presented a rapid catch-up during the first 21 days of development. Although no differences in body weight were observed between groups after the challenge with the hyperlipidic diet, an increase in the relative perigonadal white adipose tissue (P = 0.009) and a decrease in gross gastrocnemius muscle weight (P = 0.010) were observed in the PDD males. In relation to behavioural tests, there was an increase in locomotion in both sexes (P = 0.0001), and a decrease in female grooming (P = 0.006) in the PDD group. Additionally, females from the PDD group showed increased hyperlipidic food intake. In conclusion, IUGR affected both sexes, with females showing prominent behavioural modifications and males presenting altered body composition elicited by a hyperlipidic diet.

The avoidance theory of worry (Borkovec, Alcaine, & Behar, 2004) posits that the verbal-linguistic (versus imagery-based) nature of worry elicits abstract (versus concrete) processing, which inhibits affective responding and generates a host of negative consequences. Although suppression of worrisome thinking is maladaptive (Purdon, 1999), expression of worry using vivid imagery may increase concreteness of worrisome thinking and facilitate more adaptive emotional responding. The present study examined whether the valence, content, and expression of mentation impacts concreteness of thought. Participants (N = 62) were randomly assigned to verbalize their thoughts while engaging in either verbal-linguistic- or imagery-based mentation about both worrisome and neutral topics. Participants were also randomly assigned to engage in a 5-min period of suppressing or expressing the target stimuli before engaging in 5-min of freely expressing the targets. Verbalizations of mental content were coded for level of abstractness/concreteness. For neutral stimuli, imagery-based mentation led to greater concreteness than did verbal-linguistic mentation; however, for worrisome stimuli, imagery-based mentation did not enhance concreteness. In addition, for neutral (but not worrisome) stimuli, an initial period of suppression was associated with increased concreteness during subsequent expression. Imagery-based mentation about worrisome stimuli may not enhance concreteness; moreover, unlike suppression of neutral stimuli, suppression of worrisome stimuli may maintain, rather than ameliorate, abstractness of thought.

What is the central question of this study? The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of sleep restriction on self-report and autonomic responses to neutral and sad film clips. What is the main finding and its importance? Ratings of sadness and heart rate deceleration were greater while watching the sad clip, with no effect of sleep restriction, whereas heart rate variability and skin conductance were impacted by sleep restriction and, to a lesser extent, by film clips. The results suggest that autonomic function was adaptively altered by sleep restriction, in order to maintain a 'normal' response to emotional cues, despite mounting fatigue. Habitual insufficient sleep has long-term health consequences via its impact on autonomic nervous system (ANS) function and on regulation of emotion. To our knowledge, the effects of insufficient sleep on emotion-induced ANS function have not been tested. The present study aimed to address this lacuna. Using an emotion induction procedure, the effects of sleep restriction on physiological responses to validated neutral and sad film clips were assessed in a two-by-two, pseudo-randomized, cross-over design. Thirty-one participants, aged 20-33 years, were assessed after sleeping for either 5 h (sleep restricted, SR) or 8 h (well rested, WR) per night, for three consecutive nights. Physiological measures included heart rate, heart rate variability, skin conductance response (SCR) and participants' ratings of affect and fatigue. There was no effect of sleep conditions on self-reported negative affect, but watching the sad clip reduced self-reported fatigue in the SR condition. There was greater heart rate deceleration while watching sad relative to neutral clips, independent of the sleep condition. Sleep restriction increased heart rate variability measures, with no effect of emotion induction. There was an interaction of emotion induction with sleep condition for SCR, with more SCRs to sad relative to neutral clips in the WR condition, and the opposite effect in the SR condition. Combined, the results suggest that the ANS response to an emotional cue was altered by sleep restriction. The results suggest an adaptive ANS response to mild, chronic sleep restriction, resulting in constant heart rate response and self-reported experience across WR and SR conditions, despite mounting fatigue.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Sexual minority individuals are more likely to experience depressive disorders than heterosexual individuals. Factors associated with depressive symptoms among sexual minority individuals have been explored and examined; however, there is a limited evidence to understand the factors among sexual minority women in non-western countries. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: To the best our knowledge, this is the first study examining internalized homophobia, self-esteem, social support and depressive symptoms among sexual minority women in Taiwan. Sexual minority women at risk of having depressive symptoms had a higher level of internalized homophobia, lower self-esteem and fewer support from partners, friends, and families. Specifically, being single, being a student and having a higher personal income increased the risk of having depressive symptoms among sexual minority women. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health practitioners and nurses should be aware of and assess sexual minority women's level of internalized homophobia, self-esteem, and received social support to reduce the risk of depressive symptoms and thus help prevent suicidal ideation. LGBT sex education and government involvement are essential to buffer the negative influences of a homophobic society on the mental health of sexual minority women. ABSTRACT: Introduction Sexual minority women are more likely to report depressive symptoms than sexual minority men. However, there is a lack of evidence to understand factors associated with depressive symptoms among sexual minority women in non-western countries. Aim This study examined internalized homophobia, self-esteem, social support and depressive symptoms among Taiwanese sexual minority women. Method A total of 581 Taiwanese sexual minority women (Age range 20-48 years old, Mean 26.96, SD 5.718) completed an online survey. Results Taiwanese sexual minority women at risk of having depressive symptoms had a higher level of internalized homophobia and lower self-esteem. Perceived support from participants' partners, friends and families was related to lower risk of depressive symptoms. Being single, being a student and having a higher personal income were also found to increase the risk of having depressive symptoms among the women. Discussion Mental health interventions are essential for sexual minority women with internalized homophobia and low self-esteem. Implications for Practice Mental health practitioners and nurses should be aware of and assess the concerns that sexual minority women have regarding healthcare services and provide culturally competent care to reduce the risk of depressive symptoms.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The utilization rate of psychological therapies is low in older adults with depression. The barriers and facilitators to engaging in psychological therapies experienced by older adults with depression are unclear. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Personal suitability for therapy engagement, practical abilities, personal therapy preferences, and familiarity with psychological therapies are associated with psychological therapy engagement. Psychological therapists can also impact psychological therapy engagement among older adults with depression. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Proving the effectiveness and suitability of chosen psychological therapies is important for improving therapy engagement. Strategies for handling functional impairments among older adults with depression are necessary for engaging this population in psychological therapies. Although in-home psychological therapies are accessible, barriers to handling the technologies used for delivering the therapies should be addressed. More methods of accessing information about psychological therapies should be available to older adults in order for them to increase their knowledge on the topic. Psychological therapists should have positive attitudes and the competence to treat depression in older adults. INTRODUCTION: Although psychological therapies are preferred by older adults, the utilization rate of these therapies is significantly low in older adults with depression. Understanding the barriers and facilitators to engaging in psychological therapies experienced by older adults is important for improving utilization rates. This review aimed to explore the barriers and facilitators to engaging in psychological therapies experienced by older adults with depression. A systematic review of qualitative studies on psychological therapy engagement among older adults with depression. Relevant published studies and grey literature were searched. The Critical Appraisal Skills Programme tool was used to assess the quality of the included studies. The results of the included studies were synthesized using thematic synthesis. Personal suitability for therapy engagement, practical abilities, personal therapy preferences and familiarity with psychological therapies was associated with therapy engagement. Therapists' competencies also affected therapy engagement. Older adult's personal health status and requirements for psychological therapy should be considered. Mental health practitioners should consider whether specific psychological therapies are beneficial and acceptable for older adults. Improvements are needed in older adult's familiarity with psychological therapies and the ability of therapists to address the mental problems of older adults.

Procedural anxiety relates to an affective state of anxiety or fear in relation to a medical procedure. Various treatment-related factors may elicit anxiety among oncology patients, including fear of diagnostic imaging (such as MRI scans) and impending treatment and medical procedures (such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy). It is common in oncology settings to manage acute anxiety relating to medical procedures with anxiolytic medication. However, pharmacological approaches are not suitable for many patients. Despite this, non-pharmacological interventions are infrequently used. The aim of this systematic review is to determine whether non-pharmacological interventions delivered prior to, or during, radiotherapy are effective in reducing procedural anxiety. Data sources will include the bibliographic databases CINAHL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled trials (CENTRAL) (from inception onward). Eligible studies will include adult patients with cancer undergoing radiotherapy treatment. Included studies will be those which employ a non-pharmacological intervention, delivered within existing radiotherapy appointments, with the aim of reducing procedural anxiety related to radiotherapy. All research designs with a control or other comparison group will be included. The primary outcome will be change in levels of self-reported procedural anxiety. Secondary outcomes will be changes in scores on physiological measures of anxiety and/or changes in treatment completion and/or changes in treatment duration and/or changes in psychological distress. Two investigators will independently complete title and abstract screening, full-text screening, data extraction and assessment of methodological quality. If appropriate, a meta-analyses will be performed. Any important amendments to this protocol will be updated in the PROSPERO registration and documented in the resulting review publication. No ethical issues are anticipated from this review. The findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publication and at conferences by presentation. CRD42019112941.

It has been well documented that different types of nouns and action verbs are associated with behavioral and neural differences. In contrast, abstract verbs (e.g., think, dissolve) are often treated as a homogeneous category. We compared event-related potentials recorded during a syntactic classification task of four verb types; 1) abstract mental, 2) abstract emotional, 3) abstract nonbodily, and 4) concrete. Abstract nonbodily state verbs showed a sustained negativity at frontocentral electrodes and sustained positivity at parietal and occipital electrodes beginning 400 ms post-stimulus onset relative to abstract mental state and concrete verbs. Discrete source localization revealed a right inferior parietal source for all verbs and a distributed source estimation localized sources that distinguished between abstract mental state and abstract nonbodily state verbs to bilateral parietal cortex, left temporal cortex and right ventromedial prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that different types of abstract verbs are associated with representational differences.

Adipose tissue accumulation, resulting from the consumption of hypercaloric foods, can cause a dysfunction of the endocrine system. Such endocrine changes can influence the expression of various neurochemicals including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) - associated with cognitive and emotional problems. Here, we investigated the effects of a hypercaloric diet on depression- and anxiety-like behaviors in young rats along with concomitant changes in BDNF expression levels in the hippocampus. Eight week-old Wistar rats (n = 20) were divided in: control diet (CD) group which received industrial food (n = 8) and hypercaloric diet (HD) group which received animal fat and soybean oil (n = 12). After 45 days on the diet, the animals were evaluated: body weight and blood biochemical analisys. Changes in mood disposition were evaluated using forced swim test and the elevated plus-maze, whereas hippocampal BDNF expression levels were quantified by ELISA. After 45 weeks, the CD group showed a significant increase in body weight relative to the HD group. However, the HD rats had a body fat percentage and exhibited increased level of the biochemical markers. Furthermore, the animals in the HD group presented increased immobility time in the forced swimming test, as well as reduced response to plus-maze test suggesting a depression- and anxiety-like emotional state. In addition, the HD group also showed lower BDNF expression levels in the hippocampus. This study demonstrates that a hypercaloric diet induced increase in adipose tissue concentration in young rats was associated with reduced hippocampal BDNF expression and resulted in an increase in depression- and anxiety-like behaviors. Graphical abstract.

Music is a medium for people to convey and express information, and different music styles show distinct effects on the emotion and cognitive activities of human brain. The construal level denotes the abstract level of the representation of objects, and as a useful indicator has been widely used to measure people's cognitive activities. Meanwhile, the neurophysiological responses in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are associated with human cognitive activities. This work investigated the influence of music style on cognitive activities by measuring the construal level and PFC activation level. Two music styles (i.e., soothing and uplifting) were presented to listeners in the experiments. A behavioral experiment measured listeners' subjective construal levels, while the PFC activation levels were measured by a functional near-infrared spectroscopy. Results showed that compared with uplifting music, soothing music increased the subjective construal level; and the PFC activation level was higher in uplifting music than that in soothing music. These findings suggested that different music styles had distinct effects on the construal level and PFC activation level, providing evidences that music styles could impact people's cognitive activities.

The success of free vascularized fibular bone graft (FVFBG) has accelerated the osteo reconstruction which results from trauma, resection of a tumor or an infectious bone segment, or correction of congenital deformity. But the complication behind should not be overlooked. The failure could necessitate a second surgery, which prolong the rehabilitation period and produce further health cost. Worst, the patients may suffer a permanent impaired ankle function, or a sustained morpho-functional loss on reconstructive area which are hard to save. To provide an overview of the complication related to reconstruction by FVFBG, a narrative review is conducted to identify the complications including their types and rates, the contributing factors, the approaches to measure and the techniques to avoid. Methodologically, by quick research on Pubmed and abstract reading of reviews, we characterize five reconstructive areas where FVFBG were most frequently applied: extremities, mandible, spine, osteonecrosis of femoral head, and penile. Following, the complications on different reconstructive areas are retrieved, studied and presented in five (or more specifically, six) separate sections. By the way, meaningful difference between FVFBG and other bone flap was presented in a few words if necessary. Donor-site morbidities were studied and summarized as a whole. In these literatures, the evidences documented on limb and mandibular reconstruction have the fullest detail, followed by the spine and lastly the penile. In conclusion, FVFBG, though a mature technique, needs further deep and comprehensive study and maybe device-based assistance to achieve better reconstructive effect and minimize donor-site damage.

The Discovery of Insulin 

Depression is a disease with a high incidence and easy to relapse. It not only affects the work and life of patients, but also brings a heavy economic burden. University is the peak of depression, and the prevalence of depression among college students is much higher than that of ordinary people. The purpose of this research is to evaluate depression symptoms, life satisfaction, self-confidence, substance use, social adjustment, and dropout rates of the use of psychological intervention for college students. We will identify relevant trials from systematic searches in the following electronic databases: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science and The Cochrane Library. We will also search Clinical Trials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for unpublished data. Additional relevant studies will be searched through search engines (such as Google), and references included in the literature will be tracked. All relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) will be included. There are no date restrictions. Use Cochrane Collaboration's Risk of bias tool to conduct risk of bias analysis. Use the Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation to assess the quality of evidence. All statistical analysis will be performed using Stata (V.15.0.) and Review Manager (V.5.2.0). A total of 6238 records were obtained by searching the database and 27 records were obtained by other sources. After removing duplicate records, there are 4225 records remaining. We excluded 3945 records through abstract and title, leaving 280 full-text articles. This will be the first study to compare the effects of different psychological treatments on depression in college students. We hope that this study will guide clinical decision-making of psychotherapy to better treat depression in college students. INPLASY202070134.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The attributes of readiness for hospital discharge (RHD) have been identified to be physical stability, adequate support, psychological ability, and adequate information and knowledge. Patient-reported RHD has been regarded as an outcome indicator, and poor RHD leads to unplanned readmission, emergency department visits and even death. Knowledge regarding patient-reported RHD and its factors among patients with depression is limited. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: RHD among patients with depression is at a moderate level. More than a quarter of people with depression had low RHD. The knowledge dimension of the RHDS among patients with depression should be further strengthened. The length of stay, content received and delivery dimensions of the QDTS were significantly associated with RHD. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This study encourages nurses to assess patient-reported RHD at discharge in mental health settings. Nurses should pay more attention to patients with hospital stays longer than 20 days. Nurses could improve RHD by enhancing the quality of discharge teaching, particularly the content received and the skills nurses used to deliver such content. Nurses' managers could develop programmes to improve teaching skills via Internet technology, such as simulated patients and online interprofessional discharge planning. ABSTRACT: Introduction Low readiness for hospital discharge (RHD) can be followed by negative healthcare outcomes. However, no studies have investigated RHD among patients with depression. Aim This study aimed to examine patient-reported RHD and its factors among patients with depression. Method In total, 367 inpatients with depression were recruited and completed the Readiness for Hospital Discharge Scale (RHDS) and Quality of Discharge Teaching Scale (QDTS). A binary logistic regression analysis was performed to explore the factors of RHD among patients with depression. Results The total RHDS score was 7.70 ± 1.52. Approximately 28.9% of the participants had low RHD (RHDS score < 7). The results revealed that RHD was significantly associated with the length of stay, content received and delivery. Discussion RHD among patients with depression is at a moderate level. More than a quarter of people with depression had low RHD. To improve RHD, enhancing the quality of discharge teaching is imperative for patients with depression. Implications for Practice Nurses should pay more attention to patients with a hospital stay longer than 20 days. Nurses could improve RHD by enhancing the quality of discharge teaching, particularly the content received and the skills nurses used to deliver such content.

Intellectual disability (ID) or intellectual developmental disability (IDD) is one of the commonest neurodevelopmental disabilities worldwide and is known to affect 2% of the population of France or just over a million people. It is marked by a reduced ability to reason and understand abstract or complex information, which heavily restricts school learning and limits the individual's ability to adapt to daily life, including their transition to adulthood. Intellectual handicap or mental handicap results from an interaction between the individual vulnerability of a person with ID and their ecosystem, in other words, their family, and cultural and institutional environment, which can be a barrier or a facilitator. Identifying a child with an unusual developmental trajectory requires professionals to have a good understanding of psychomotor development. ID may be isolated but is very often intertwined with other neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism, motor or sensory difficulties (hearing, vision), serious sleep and eating disorders, and medical conditions such as epilepsy, as well as a wide variety of psychopathologic problems, including anxiety, depression, and emotional regulation disorders. There are many causes of ID. More than half of all cases are genetic in origin, and there are several hundreds of rare diseases about which little is known so far. The use of new genetic techniques (high-throughput sequencing) should reduce the number of people who are undiagnosed and give way to a comprehensive diagnostic approach based on clinical practice. A regular multidimensional evaluation of cognitive, educational, socioemotional, and adaptive skills throughout life provides a better understanding of how individuals with ID function and will contribute toward the planning of more appropriate strategies for learning, care, and support, leading to a better quality of life and participation in society.

The first access to a mental health service is sometimes marked by aggressive behaviours and anger. Forced hospitalization is frequently an occasion for resistance and hostility to the service, which should not be mistaken for psychotic symptoms. If this situation is not dealt with effectively, it can jeopardize the quality of the relationship with staff and compliance with the treatment programme. The narrator presents his experience in undergoing voluntary psychiatric treatment, casting light on nurses' good and bad practices: those that increased resistance, and those that helped de-escalate the uncontrolled reaction at the time of access, as well as during the recovery period. Practitioners should be able to put in place listening techniques and ways of personalizing the relationship with the patient. When such measures become part of the patient's meaning system, the vicious circle of misunderstood anger that creates more anger may be interrupted and the patient can invest in relationships of trust. Aggression is often a reason for psychiatric hospitalization and may lead to prolonged hospital stays, and at worst to compulsory treatments. The relationship between mental illness and aggressive behaviour is a source for debate in the literature, while research data suggest that violent behaviour is impacted not only by the mental state of the patient, but also by environmental and relational conditions, hence the importance of an increased awareness of operating methods on the part of psychiatric staff. Alex's story is an effective mirror for rethinking staff conduct and offers many practical suggestions for understanding a patient's point of view in critical episodes and for deescalating relational tension.

The independent association of depressive symptoms and diabetes distress with mortality risk in individuals with diabetes has not been evaluated. We examined the temporal joint association of diabetes distress and depressive symptoms at baseline and the subsequent risk of all-cause mortality. The longitudinal data of 3118 individuals with type 2 diabetes were obtained from a large Japanese diabetes registry. To assess the joint association of diabetes distress and depressive symptoms at baseline with the subsequent risk of all-cause mortality, the Cox proportional hazards model was used with adjustment for potential confounders. The mean age, BMI and HbA Diabetes distress and depressive symptoms were independently associated with all-cause mortality risk in male participants with type 2 diabetes, but we did not observe a significant interaction between diabetes distress and depressive symptoms in relation to all-cause mortality. Graphical abstract.

The purpose of this study was to systematically review the effects of supervised resistance training (RT) programs in people diagnosed with depression or depressive symptoms. The following databases were used to search and retrieve the articles: Cochrane Library, EBSCO, PEDro, PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science. The search was conducted in late June 2020. Search protocol required the title to contain the words depression or depressive or dysthymia. Furthermore, the title, abstract or keywords had to contain the words or expressions: "randomized controlled trial"; and "strength training" or "resistance training" or "resisted training" or "weight training". The screening provided 136 results. After the removal of duplicates, 70 records remained. Further screening of titles and abstracts resulted in the elimination of 57 papers. Therefore, 13 records were eligible for further scrutiny. Of the 13 records, nine were excluded, and the final sample consisted of four articles. Results were highly heterogeneous, with half of the studies showing positive effects of resistance training and half showing no effects. In two of the four combinations, the meta-analysis revealed significant benefits of RT in improving depressive symptoms (

The recommendations of experts who write review articles are a critical determinant of the adaptation of new treatments by clinicians. Several types of reviews exist (narrative, systematic, meta-analytic), and some of these are more vulnerable to researcher bias than others. Recently, the interest in nutritional interventions in psychiatry has increased and many experts, who are often active researchers on this topic, have come to strong conclusions about the benefits of a healthy diet on depression. In a young and active field of study, we aimed to investigate whether the strength of an author's conclusion is associated with the type of review article they wrote. Systematic searches were performed in PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Google Scholar for narrative reviews and systematic reviews with and without meta-analyses on the effects of diet on depression (final search date: May 30th, 2020). Conclusions were extracted from the abstract and discussion section and rated as strong, moderate, or weak by independent raters who were blind to study type. A benchmark on legitimate conclusion strength was based on a GRADE assessment of the highest level of evidence. This systematic review was registered with PROSPERO, number CRD42020141372. 24 narrative reviews, 12 systematic reviews, and 14 meta-analyses were included. In the abstract, 33% of narrative reviews and 8% of systematic reviews came to strong conclusions, whereas no meta-analysis did. Narrative reviews were 8.94 (95% CI: 2.17, 36.84) times more likely to report stronger conclusions in the abstract than systematic reviews with and without meta-analyses. These findings were similar for conclusions in the discussion section. Narrative reviews used 45.6% fewer input studies and were more likely to be written by authors with potential conflicts of interest. A study limitation is the subjective nature of the conclusion classification system despite high inter-rater agreements and its confirmation outside of the review team. We have shown that narrative reviews come to stronger conclusions about the benefits of a healthy diet on depression despite inconclusive evidence. This finding empirically underscores the importance of a systematic method for summarizing the evidence of a field of study. Journal editors may want to reconsider publishing narrative reviews before meta-analytic reviews are available.

Bruxism: Classification, Diagnostics and Treatment 

Uncertainty regarding which psychological mechanisms are fundamental in mediating SSRI treatment outcomes and wide-ranging variability in their efficacy has raised more questions than it has solved. Since subjective mood states are an abstract scientific construct, only available through self-report in humans, and likely involving input from multiple top-down and bottom-up signals, it has been difficult to model at what level SSRIs interact with this process. Converging translational evidence indicates a role for serotonin in modulating context-dependent parameters of action selection, affect, and social cognition; and concurrently supporting learning mechanisms, which promote adaptability and behavioural flexibility. We examine the theoretical basis, ecological validity, and interaction of these constructs and how they may or may not exert a clinical benefit. Specifically, we bridge crucial gaps between disparate lines of research, particularly findings from animal models and human clinical trials, which often seem to present irreconcilable differences. In determining how SSRIs exert their effects, our approach examines the endogenous functions of 5-HT neurons, how 5-HT manipulations affect behaviour in different contexts, and how their therapeutic effects may be exerted in humans - which may illuminate issues of translational models, hierarchical mechanisms, idiographic variables, and social cognition.

To evaluate whether caesarean delivery before 26 weeks of gestation was associated with symptoms of depression and anxiety in mothers in comparison with deliveries between 26 and 34 weeks. Prospective national population-based EPIPAGE-2 cohort study. 268 neonatology departments in France, March to December 2011. Mothers who delivered between 22 and 34 weeks and whose self-reported symptoms of depression (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale: CES-D) and anxiety (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory: STAI) were assessed at the moment of neonatal discharge. The association of caesarean delivery before 26 weeks with severe symptoms of depression (CES-D ≥16) and anxiety (STAI ≥45) was assessed by weighted and design-based log-linear regression model. Severe symptoms of depression and anxiety in mothers of preterm infants. Among the 2270 women completing CES-D and STAI questionnaires at the time of neonatal discharge, severe symptoms of depression occurred in 25 (65.8%) women having a caesarean before 26 weeks versus in 748 (50.6%) women having a caesarean after 26 weeks. Caesarean delivery before 26 weeks was associated with severe symptoms of depression compared with caesarean delivery after 26 weeks (adjusted relative risk [aRR] 1.42, 95% CI 1.12-1.81) adjusted to neonatal birthweight and severe neonatal morbidity among other factors. There was no evidence of an association between mode of delivery and symptoms of anxiety. Mothers having a caesarean delivery before 26 weeks' gestation are at high risk of symptoms of depression and may benefit from specific preventive care. Mothers having caesarean delivery before 26 weeks' gestation are at high risk of symptoms of depression.

The sociolinguistic meaning of hand and nerves and their emotional expression 

Chronic postoperative pain and psychological factors 

Loneliness is associated with all-cause mortality and coronary heart disease. However, the prospective relationship between loneliness and type 2 diabetes onset is unclear. We conducted a longitudinal observational population study with data on 4112 diabetes-free participants (mean age 65.02 ± 9.05) from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing. Loneliness was assessed in 2004-2005 using the revised University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Loneliness Scale. Incident type 2 diabetes cases were assessed from 2006 to 2017. Associations were modelled using Cox proportional hazards regression, adjusting for potential confounders, which included cardiometabolic comorbidities. A total of 264 (6.42%) participants developed type 2 diabetes over the follow-up period. Loneliness was a significant predictor of incident type 2 diabetes (HR 1.46; 95% CI 1.15, 1.84; p = 0.002) independent of age, sex, ethnicity, wealth, smoking status, physical activity, alcohol consumption, BMI, HbA Loneliness is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. The mechanisms underlying this relationship remain to be elucidated. Graphical abstract.

In an iconicity judgement task, participants were asked whether word pairs were iconic (e.g., 

The aim of the current endeavor was to systematically review the existing evidence on brain connectivity abnormalities in patients with functional seizures (FS). This systematic review was prepared according to the instructions of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement. MEDLINE (accessed from PubMed) and Scopus from inception to April 4, 2020 were systematically searched. The following search strategy was implemented and these key words (in the title/abstract) were used: "connectivity" OR "network" AND "psychogenic" OR "dissociative" OR "nonepileptic". Through the search strategy, we could identify eighteen articles. These studies have applied various methodologies and they could identify a variety of brain connectivity abnormalities in people with FS. However, none of these studies provided a high level of evidence. They were all small studies (none had a sample size of more than 21 patients). In addition, most of the studies did not match their cases and their controls with respect to the psychiatric comorbidities and other significant confounders. Abnormal functional connectivity between emotion processing areas of the brain with regions involved in executive control and cognitive performance, and the functional connections of the anterior cingulate cortex are of major interest and may be involved in the pathophysiology of FS. Pursuing the concept of brain connectivity abnormalities in patients with FS and comparing the findings with well-matched controls in well-designed studies may result in a breakthrough in identifying the exact neurobiological origin of FS.

The microbiome-gut-brain (MGB) axis provides a dynamic model to understand associations between the gut microbiota and psychoneurological comorbidities. The role of the MGB axis in cancer treatment-related psychoneurological symptoms (PNS) remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic review of the existing literature to identify the influence of the gut microbiota on cancer and cancer treatment-related PNS and toxicities mediated by the MGB axis. We searched the databases of PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science from their earliest records to October 2019. All studies identified in the database searches were screened by title and abstract, followed by a review of the full texts. The Johns Hopkins Nursing Evidence-Based Practice Model was adopted to assess the evidence levels and qualities; the Joanna Briggs Institute critical appraisal tools were used to assess the methodological quality and the possibility of bias for each included study. All the study findings were combined, synthesized, and presented through narrative format. Six studies were included in this systematic review. These studies primarily focused on cancer survivorship while receiving chemotherapy, and they were conducted between 2016 and 2019. The gut microbiome was assessed via fecal samples, which were analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing approaches. With small-scale studies, the gut microbiota was associated with cancer treatment-related PNS, including fatigue, anxiety, depression, sleep disturbance, cognitive impairment, and chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. A higher relative abundance of Bacteroides was associated with a higher level of fear of cancer recurrence but a higher relative abundance of Lachnospiraceae.g and Ruminococcus was associated with a lower level in fear of cancer recurrence. Changes in fatigue interference were associated with the frequency of genera Faecalibacterium and Prevotella, and changes in anxiety were associated with the frequency of genera Coprococcus and Bacteroides. The gut microbiota showed significant associations with cancer treatment-related PNS. Recent work regarding the MGB axis in cancer psychoneurological toxicities focused primarily on individual toxicity and symptoms in cancer survivors with chemotherapy exposure. Associations between the gut microbiota and PNS should be further studied in cancer populations across different ages, cancer types, and treatment modalities.

The incidence of juvenile stroke is increasing. Considering younger age of patients and the potential long-lasting disability, the consequences of juvenile stroke may have a greater societal impact than those of stroke in elder population. A systematic review was performed in order to evaluate quality of life in juvenile stroke. All studies on quality of life in juvenile stroke published in PUBMED before March 1st, 2020. The search terms were "stroke", "juvenile", "young", "adult", "quality of life" and "resilience" were considered. After the abstract evaluation of 748 hits only six studies we identified as appropriate for the review. The age criterion for juvenile stroke was set as 55 years and younger. The studies have shown a decline of quality of life in at least 46% of patients with juvenile stroke. On average, quality of life was reduced by 37%. The following domains as measured on SF-36 were particularly impaired: physical role, physical functioning and emotional role. The factors influencing the quality of life in juvenile stroke were ability to return to work, post-stroke depression, functional outcome, level of education and age of stroke onset. This systematic review shows a decline of quality of life in patients with juvenile stroke. Rehabilitation programs should consider the factors influencing quality of life in these patients in order to improve outcome of juvenile stroke. Patients who are unable to return to work should receive necessary social support. In addition, our data underline the importance of screening procedures for post-stroke depression in this population.

Current research examined the differential effects of pills' shape (angular vs. curvy) on the perceived efficacy of the medicine, evoked bodily sensations and emotions. We investigated these effects by using different types of angular vs. curved stimuli: abstract drawn shapes (Study 1), 3D-printed mockup pills (Study 2) and photographs of the existing pills (Study 3). Participants were asked to imagine 'taking' angular and curved pills. They had to focus on the bodily sensations and report the evoked activations/deactivations in different body parts. Across three studies, we found that the angular pills evoke overall more activations in the body compared to curvy pills. We further reported differences in the topography of angular vs. curved pills'-triggered sensations in different body parts. Our results also revealed that angularity is linked with an energizing effect while roundness is associated with a calming effect. The shape effects were demonstrated not only in self-reported energized vs. calm subjective feelings but also in performance on a timed cognitive test. Compared to incongruent designs, pill designs (angular vs. curved) congruent with proposed drug benefits (energizing vs. calming) were perceived as more effective. Moreover, we found differences in emotions triggered by pills of different shapes. The present research provided new findings on angularity vs. curvature perception that may be valuable for cognitive psychology, marketing, pharmaceutical and supplements industry, and other applied fields.

The morphological transformations that occur during adolescence with rapid rhythm have an unprecedented psychological resonance and it is of fundamental importance to understand the way in which they are lived, perceived and elaborated.These fast body changes and the related social pressures make young people paying more attention to their physical appearance. Among the changes that the adolescent must face are: accepting their own body, acquiring a social role, establishing new relationships with peers,achieving emotional independence from parents. All of this is not always easy and many times they face a so difficult path that can produce the onset of some mental pathologies. Typical disorders that adolescents can face are the ones related to food. In these pathologies there is an isolation of the soul which corresponds to an alienation from the body: what remains in this loneliness is the gap between the idealized body and the objectified body. In this process of identity determination the idealized body is not able to relate to the real body (Cuzzolaro 2017). The dimension of their own body and the ability to meet the other bodies in the world are compromised; the only possible knowledge is represented by the impoverishment of their own subjectivity and by the attempt to recover it at an abstract level. Adolescents live in a condition of temporal suspension: the future is compromised and the past is demonized; what remains is a present moment made eternal by an indefinitely suspended instant (Juli 2018). Too fat for the anorexic, repulsive for binge eating; Merleau-Ponty already in 1945 expressed the concept of corporeality by using the following simple and very effective statement: "I am my body". This statement highlights the centrality of the body, of the person and his/her identity; this aspects are highly conflicting and, at the same time, pathologically united, in eating disorders.

We report 3 empirical studies that represent the first systematic attempt to explore the relationship between emotional and decisional forgiveness and intentional forgetting. On this basis, we propose a model that provides a credible explanation for the relationship between forgiveness and forgetting. Specifically, we propose that engaging in emotional forgiveness promotes the psychological distancing of an offense, such that victims construe the offense at a higher and more abstract level. This high-level construal, in turn, promotes larger intentional forgetting effects, which, in turn, promote increased emotional forgiveness. Our studies found that participants in an emotional forgiveness manipulation reported increased psychological distance and recalled more high-level construals than did participants in either a decisional or no-forgiveness manipulation (Study 1). Using the list-method directed forgetting paradigm, we found that participants in an emotional forgiveness manipulation showed larger forgetting effects for both offense-relevant and -irrelevant information using both hypothetical (Study 2) and real-life (Study 3) moral transgressions compared with participants in either decisional or no-forgiveness manipulations. The potential implications of these findings for coping with unpleasant episodes in our lives are considered. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2021 APA, all rights reserved).

Humans have a natural tendency to explain events as caused by metaphysical or supernatural beings and forces. Much of the research in the psychology of religion over the past few years has focused on explanations and experiences involving a person-like God, whether God is authoritarian and/or benevolent, and the extent to which people think of God as being involved in human affairs. Yet many theists think of God in more abstract terms. Moreover, people in every religious tradition and culture believe in other metaphysical beings and forces. These beliefs and related experiences may reflect, and even predict, a believer's thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. More precise measures and innovative methodologies are needed to investigate the great variability in metaphysical beliefs.

Affective science offers many self-report measures, but implicit measures of multiple distinct emotional states are lacking. Prior research (Bartoszek & Cervone, 2017) initiated the development of such an assessment method by examining whether ratings of the emotional content of abstract images reveal raters' emotional states. The current studies were designed to determine whether the speed of these ratings is key to the validity of an implicit emotion measure. To this end, Study 1 exploited naturally occurring variations in response times, whereas Study 2 used time pressure in responding to the implicit measure. Both studies featured a fear-induction and revealed that implicitly assessed fear correlated with psychophysiological (Study 1) and behavioral (Studies 1 and 2) responses even when controlling for self-reported fear. Importantly, results supported the construct, criterion, and incremental validity of the implicit measure only among participants who responded quickly. Study 3 employed a sadness-induction and an experimental manipulation of response times using fast- and slow-paced conditions. The emotion induction affected fast, but not slow, responses to the implicit measure. Overall, findings highlight the importance of response speed in implicit emotion assessment and suggest that the Implicit Measure of Distinct Emotional States can validly differentiate among emotions. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

Rehabilitation is important for patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection. Given the lack of guidelines in English on the rehabilitation of these patients, we conducted a review of the most recent reports. We performed this literature review using the principal research databases and included randomized trials, recommendations, quasi-randomized or prospective controlled clinical trials, reports, guidelines, field updates, and letters to the editor. We identified 107 studies in the database search, among which 85 were excluded after screening the full text or abstract. In total, 22 studies were finally included. The complexity of the clinical setting and the speed of spread of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, which leads to rapid occupation of beds in the intensive care unit, make it necessary to discharge patients with COVID-19 who have mild symptoms as soon as possible. For these reasons, it is necessary to formulate rehabilitation programs for these patients, to help them restore physical and respiratory function and to reduce anxiety and depression, particularly patients with comorbidities and those who live alone or in rural settings, to restore a good quality of life.

To identify and map barriers and facilitators of physical activity (PA) in adults living with type 1 diabetes (T1D) in any care setting or environment. A scoping review was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA-ScR guidelines to address the aim of this review. Exclusion/inclusion criteria were determined a priori. Articles captured in the search were subject to title and abstract screening before full-text articles were assessed for eligibility against the exclusion/inclusion criteria. Included articles underwent critical appraisal before being charted, mapped, and discussed. Forty-six articles were included in the final synthesis. Most commonly, articles reported cross-sectional survey studies (46%), then qualitative designs (17%), and opinion or text (17%). Experimental studies accounted for 13% of included articles. 

Between dream and distress - Setting up and running a cohort ward for COVID-19 Patients at an acute hospital - A case study  Description of the setting up of a cohort ward for patients with COVID-19 on a surgical ward including the development of the nursing team. The intrinsic retrospective case study describes the situation, identifies special phenomena in a reflective manner and links them to existing knowledge. Data were anecdotal, routine data were collected in the context of nursing practice development. Setting up the cohort ward in a Swiss hospital consisted of structural and technical planning, infection control measures, the establishment of interprofessional structures, and internal communication. During the four-week operation, 71 patients were treated. The use of practice development methodology initiated a cultural change. The reflection describes a field of tension between "dream and distress": As a dream, the lived experience of optimal care, with well-functioning processes, sufficient material, sufficient personnel and a very good interprofessional cooperation was evaluated. Distress in the form of high infection rates as well as psychological and physical stress did not occur. After the cohort ward was closed, there was a risk working back in normal operations based on existing economical and organizational conditions, with the knowledge that a different cooperation and organization is possible. Positive experiences from the "crisis mode" should be used to further develop essential operations during normal times.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is prevalent. Declining mortality has led to increasing survivors with chronic sequalae, including depression. With a lack of guidelines, this review aims to provide a comprehensive, evidence-based summary of the management of depression following TBI. Systematic searches were conducted for quasi-experimental and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing pharmacotherapy, psychological interventions, and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Databases searched CENTRAL, Medline, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Web of Science, and ProQuest dissertations. Data extraction and risk-of-bias tools were used. Where possible, outcomes were combined into meta-analyses. 2719 studies were identified. After abstract screening and full-text reading, 34 remained. Prophylactic sertraline significantly reduced the odds of depression (OR (odds ratio) = 0.31 [95%CI (confidence interval) = 0.12 to 0.82]). Meta-analysis of RCT's showed TMS to have the greatest reduction in depression severity (SMD (Standardized-Mean-Difference) = 2.43 [95%CI = 1.24 to 3.61]). Stimulants were the only treatment superior to control (SMD = -1.03 [95%CI = - 1.6 to -0.47]). Methylphenidate was the most effective pharmacotherapy. Sertraline appears effective for prevention. The efficacy of psychological interventions is unclear. TMS as a combination therapy appears promising. Heterogeneity of study populations and dearth of evidence means results should be interpreted cautiously.

words have usually been treated as a homogenous group, with limited investigation of the influence of different underlying representational systems for these words. In the present study we examined lexical-semantic processing of abstract verbs, separating them into mental state, emotional state and nonembodied state types. We used a syntactic classification task and a memory task to investigate behavioural differences amongst the abstract verb types. Semantic richness effects of each of the verbs' associates were then investigated to determine the relationship of linguistic associations to semantic processing response times for abstract verbs. We found a modest effect of abstract verb type, with mental state abstract verbs processed more quickly than nonembodied abstract verbs in the syntactic classification task; however, this effect was task dependent. We also found that memory was less accurate for the mental state abstract verbs. The semantic richness analysis of abstract verb associates revealed (1) that the concreteness of an abstract verb's associates has a positive relationship to the verb's response time and (2) a negative relationship between response time and age of acquisition for associates of nonembodied verbs. The results provide support for the proposal that abstract concepts engage complex representations in modal and linguistic systems.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) selected six text-only warnings for cigarillos to be implemented on packaging and advertising. Pictorial warnings are more effective at discouraging cigarette use than text-only warnings, yet no research exists for cigarillos. We sought to understand what types of images might be most effectively paired with the cigarillo text warnings to inform broad principles for developing pictorial warnings, with a focus on young adults, who have the highest rate of cigarillo use. We conducted five focus groups with a total of N = 30 young adult cigarillo users and susceptible nonusers (53% female, 50% White, and 33% Black). Participants were shown four to eight unique images for each of the six text statements and were asked about visual-verbal congruency, emotional and cognitive reactions, and perceived effectiveness of each image. Sessions were recorded and transcribed; two investigators independently coded transcripts for emergent themes. Participants reported images that were graphic or "gross" would best grab attention and discourage use of cigarillos. Participants preferred images that were a direct illustration of the information in the warning text, rather than abstract images that required more cognitive effort to understand. Participants also highlighted that including people in the images, especially youth and young adults making eye contact, helped them relate to the warnings, garner their attention, and positively influence their reactions. We identified several principles to inform the selection of images to pair with the FDA-required cigarillo text statements. These insights may also apply to pictorial warnings for other tobacco products. This focus group study identified principles for selecting images to develop pictorial warnings for the six FDA text-only cigarillo warnings. We found that young adult cigarillo users and susceptible nonusers preferred images that were graphic and gross, believable, congruent to the warning text, and included people. Images that match young adults' visual expectations of a disease and are emotion-provoking may be most effective in pictorial warnings and highlight challenges for developing pictorial warnings for health effects that do not have a visible health consequence.

Depression is twice as common in individuals with type 2 diabetes as in the general population. However, it remains unclear whether hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance are directly involved in the aetiology of depression. Therefore, we investigated the association of markers of hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance, measured as continuous variables, with incident depressive symptoms over 4 years of follow-up. We used data from the longitudinal population-based Maastricht Study (n = 2848; mean age 59.9 ± 8.1 years, 48.8% women, 265 incident depression cases, 10,932 person-years of follow-up). We assessed hyperglycaemia by fasting and 2 h post-load OGTT glucose levels, HbA Fasting plasma glucose, 2 h post-load glucose and HbA The observed temporal association between hyperglycaemia and incident depressive symptoms in this study supports the presence of a mechanistic link between hyperglycaemia and the development of depressive symptoms. Graphical abstract.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Pre- and postmenopausal women (PPW) experience changes in physical, psychological and social health. South-East Asia's female suicide rate is the highest compared with other countries, and the suicide rate of PPW in these countries continues to increase. The most influential factor in Asian women's suicidal ideation is family conflict; specifically, if PPW in South Korea cannot express their anger, it results in a culture-bound syndrome called "Hwa-Byung." However, there is a lack of research on Asian PPW. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study found differences in individual- and community-level factors affecting suicidal ideation between pre- and postmenopausal women. Individual factors that commonly affected suicidal ideation were experiencing violence, stress and depression. Individual factors that affected the suicidal ideation of premenopausal women more than postmenopausal women were religious beliefs, alcohol use and chronic disease. Community level factors affecting suicidal ideation were locational depression and locational counselling for stress in premenopausal women and locational counselling for depression in postmenopausal women. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses could help prevent suicide by developing and applying community-based programmes for PPW, considering the specific socio-economic and cultural context and characteristics of Asian women. Mental health nurses could help PPW participate in programmes by preparing various interventions such as case management, personal counselling, physical activity, home-based mental health services, cognitive behavioural therapy and digital interventions for self-management. Mental health nurses need to prepare various methods such as online, offline, individual and group methods to work effectively in any social situation. ABSTRACT: Introduction Pre- and postmenopausal women (PPW) experience physical and psychological changes with hormonal changes. Among Asian middle-aged women, family and culture affect suicidal ideation, and the suicide rate among this population is increasing. There are few existing research on suicidal ideation among Asian PPW. Aim We examined individual- and community-level factors that predict suicidal ideation among PPW. Method Large-scale panel data from 5,154 South Korean PPW aged 35-64 years were used in a series of multilevel logistic regression analyses to examine factors associated with suicidal ideation at individual and community levels. Results Among premenopausal women, religious beliefs, alcohol use, chronic disease, experience of violence, stress and depression were individual-level factors. Locational depression and locational counselling for stress were community-level factors. Among postmenopausal women, experience of violence, stress, depression and perceived health status were individual level factors, and locational counselling for depression was a community level factor. Discussion Suicidal ideation among PPW is affected by both individual and community level factors. Nurses must comprehensively determine what risk factors affect suicidal ideation through various intervention methods-including online, offline, individual and group methods-while considering socio-economic situations. Implications for Practice Mental health nurses should provide targeted biopsychosocial interventions targeting psychosocial and physical problems and promoting the use of community resources to reduce PPW's suicidal ideation.

Bodily movements representing abstract concepts (e.g., fluidity) can affect divergent creative thinking. A recent study showed that participants who performed fluid arm movements by tracing curved line-drawings (the fluid condition) subsequently generated a larger number of more original alternative uses for newspapers than did those who traced angular line-drawings (the non-fluid condition). This suggests that fluid movements enhance fluency and originality in divergent creative thinking. To replicate these findings, we employed the same task with a larger Japanese sample. Participants in the fluid condition generated more uses for newspapers than in the non-fluid condition, regardless of confounding variables: mood, subjective difficulty of the tracing, and daily use of newspapers. In contrast to previous findings, there were no effects on originality. Our results suggest that fluidity enacted by arm movements robustly enhances creative fluency, although other factors (e.g., culture) could interfere with its effect on originality.

Studies have routinely shown that individuals spend more time spontaneously looking at people or at mimetic scenes that they subsequently judge to be more aesthetically appealing. This "beauty demands longer looks" phenomenon is typically explained by biological relevance, personal utility, or other survival factors, with visual attraction often driven by structural features (symmetry, texture), which may signify fitness and to which most humans tend to respond similarly. However, what of objects that have less overtly adaptive relevance? Here, we consider whether people also look longer at abstract art with little associative/mimetic content that they subsequently rate for higher aesthetic appeal. We employed the "Visual aesthetic sensitivity test" (VAST), which consists of pairs of matched abstract designs with one example of each pair argued to be objectively 'aesthetically better' in regards to low-level features, thus offering a potential contrast between 'objective' (physical feature-based) and 'subjective' (personal taste-based) assessments. Participants (29 women) first looked at image pairs without a specific task and then in three follow-up blocks indicated their preference within the pairs and rated the individual images for liking and for presumed ratings by an art expert. More preferred designs were looked at longer. However, longer looking only occurred in line with participants' subjective tastes. This suggests a general correlation of attention and visual beauty, which-in abstract art-may nonetheless be related to features that are not identified by experts as more generally appealing and thus may not directly map to other (more utility-related) stimuli types.

A recent study by Ponari, Norbury, and Vigliocco (2018), showed that emotional valence (i.e. whether a word evokes positive, negative, or no affect) predicts age-of-acquisition ratings and that up to the age of 8-9, children know abstract emotional words better than neutral ones. On the basis of these findings, emotional valence has been argued to provide a bootstrapping mechanism for the acquisition of abstract concepts. However, no previous work has directly assessed whether words' valence, or valence of the context in which words are used, facilitates learning of unknown abstract words. Here, we investigate whether valence supports acquisition of novel abstract concepts. Seven to 10 year old children were taught novel abstract words and concepts (words typically learned at an older age that the children did not know); words were either valenced (positive or negative) or neutral. We also manipulated the context in which words were presented: For 1 group of children, the teaching strategy emphasized emotional information; for the other, it emphasized encyclopedic, nonemotional information. Abstract words with emotional valence were learned better than neutral abstract words by children up to the age of 8-9, replicating previous findings; no effect of teaching strategy was found. These results indicate that emotional valence supports abstract concepts acquisition and further suggest that it is the valence information intrinsic to the word's meaning to have a role, rather than the valence of the context in which the word is learned. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

Given the strong relationship between circadian rhythm disruption and mood regulation, combined chronotherapeutic approaches have been proposed for mood disorders. However, a comprehensive review of the available evidence on the efficacy of such interventions for depression is lacking. To systematically review available literature on Triple Chronotherapy (Sleep Deprivation - Sleep Phase Advance - Bright Light Therapy) for depressive symptoms in Major Depression and Bipolar Depression. We followed the PRISMA statement for systematic reviews to conduct a web-based search on PubMed, Scopus and Embase using a list of selected keywords relevant to depression and chronotherapy. After title and abstract screening of the 321 records retrieved, 25 potentially eligible studies were assessed at full-text screening. Nineteen studies were excluded for failure to match inclusion criteria. Six records of Triple Chronotherapy in addition to conventional treatment, published between 2009 and 2019, were included in the revision. All studies reported significant improvements on HAM-D scores at the end of treatment, with 50% to 84% response rates. Efficacy of treatment was confirmed on follow-up by three studies, with 58% to 61% response rates. Remission rates varied from 33,3% to 77%. Reported side effects were negligible across studies. Available trials are very few and only one included a control group treated with a daily exercise program. The limited literature suggests that Triple chronotherapy might be a safe and effective addition to conventional antidepressant interventions, although well-designed, randomized controlled trials are needed.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess differences between adult patients with the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder (BPD) and healthy control subjects in terms of empathy and related processes• Evaluate the effects of empathy or related processes as factors contributing to abnormal social functioning in BPD ABSTRACT: We reviewed 45 original research studies, published between 2000 and 2019, to assess differences between adult patients with the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder (BPD) and healthy control subjects in terms of empathy and related processes (i.e., theory of mind, mentalizing, social cognition, and emotional intelligence). Thirty-six studies reported deficits of empathy or related processes in patients with BPD. Enhanced emotional empathy in BPD was also reported in eight studies, all of which revealed that patients had increased scores of personal distress on the Interpersonal Reactivity Index self-report questionnaire. Six studies did not find significant differences between patients with BPD and healthy control subjects in terms of empathy or related processes. No study reported enhanced cognitive empathy, social cognition, or emotional intelligence in patients with BPD. We postulate that deficits of empathy or related processes contribute to preempting the formation of stable interpersonal relationships, whereas enhanced emotional empathy might lead to personal (and interpersonal) distress, further contributing to abnormal social functioning in BPD.

What is the central question of this study? What are the alleviative effects of the combination of exercise training and quercetin supplementation on colorectal cancer-related depression in rats with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced colorectal cancer and what is the corresponding signalling pathway? What is the main finding and its importance? We showed that the combination of exercise training and quercetin supplementation resulted in a significant decrease in tumour incidence and improvement in depressive-like behaviours through modulation of the BDNF/TrKβ/β-catenin axis in the prefrontal cortex. In addition to physical problems, depression is considered to be one of the most important challenges for patients with various types of cancers, particularly colorectal cancer. Inflammation and upregulation of brain neurotrophic factors are two major links between cancer and depression. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the alleviative effects of quercetin and exercise training on depressive-like behaviours in rats with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced colorectal cancer and to investigate the underlying mechanisms. Animals were assigned into the following five groups: (i) control group; (ii) DMH (20 mg kg

Musculoskeletal pain is a widespread complex regional pain syndrome associated with altered emotional and cognitive functioning along with heightened physical disability that has become a global health concern. Effective management of this disorder and associated disabilities includes accurate diagnosis of its biomarkers and instituting mechanism-based therapeutic interventions. Herein, we explored the role of heraclin, a plant-derived molecule, in musculoskeletal pain and its underlying mechanistic approaches in an experimental mouse model. Reserpine (0.5 mg/kg) for 3 consecutive days evoked hyperalgesia, motor incoordination, lack of exploratory behavior, anxiety, and cognition lapse in mice. Reserpine-challenged mice displayed higher serum cytokine level, altered brain neurotransmitter content, elevated brain and muscle oxidative stress, and upregulated brain nerve growth factor receptor expression. Treatment with heraclin (10 mg/kg for 5 consecutive days) exerted analgesic effect and improved motor coordination and memory deficits in mice. Heraclin arrested serum cytokine rise, normalized brain neurotransmitter content, reduced tissue oxidative stress, and downregulated the nerve growth factor receptor expression. Therefore, it may be suggested that heraclin exerts beneficial effects against reserpine-induced musculoskeletal pain disorder possibly through the attenuation of NGFR-mediated pain and inflammatory signaling. Graphical Abstract.

Reminiscing, or thinking and talking about our past experiences, can have mood enhancing effects. Rumination is implicated in reminiscence and yet has been shown to have negative effects on mood, with important differences between age groups. However, age differences in the effects of reminiscing on mood, and particularly the effects of rumination within reminiscence, are less explored. Two different age groups completed self-report measures of the positive directive (planning for present and future behaviors) and social (communication) uses of autobiographical memory, as well as maladaptive rumination and depression symptom severity. Young participants (Mean age: 21.82) ruminated more and reported greater frequency of using the directive and social functions of thinking and talking about past experiences than older adults (Mean age: 71.82). These reminiscence processes were also differentially associated with depression symptoms between age groups when tested in structural equation models. In older participants, but not young participants, the directive function was negatively associated with depression severity; in young participants, but not old participants, the social function was negatively associated with depression severity. Furthermore, although depressive and abstract rumination was directly positively related to depression scores in both samples, this association was inverted when the effect of rumination on depression was calculated through functions of reminiscence. The implications of these results for intervention development in older versus young adults, is discussed.

Long-term consequences of aversive childhood experiences: effects on the incidence of psychiatric illnesses 

It has been proposed that the human amygdala may not only encode the emotional value of sensory events, but more generally mediate the appraisal of their relevance for the individual's goals, including relevance for action or task-based needs. However, emotional and non-emotional/action-relevance might drive amygdala activity through distinct neural signals, and the relative timing of both kinds of responses remains undetermined. Here, we recorded intracranial event-related potentials from nine amygdalae of patients undergoing epilepsy surgery, while they performed variants of a Go/NoGo task with faces and abstract shapes, where emotion- and action-relevance were orthogonally manipulated. Our results revealed early amygdala responses to emotion facial expressions starting ~ 130 ms after stimulus-onset. Importantly, the amygdala responded to action-relevance not only with face stimuli but also with abstract shapes (squares), and these relevance effects consistently occurred in later time-windows (starting ~ 220 ms) for both faces and squares. A similar dissociation was observed in gamma activity. Furthermore, whereas emotional responses habituated over time, the action-relevance effect increased during the course of the experiment, suggesting progressive learning based on the task needs. Our results support the hypothesis that the human amygdala mediates a broader relevance appraisal function, with the processing of emotion-relevance preceding temporally that of action-relevance.

Prolonged Grief Disorder (PGD) is a debilitating condition affecting between 7% and 10% of bereaved individuals. Past imaging and psychological studies have proposed links between PGD's characteristic symptoms - in particular, profound yearning - and the neural reward system. We conducted a systematic review to investigate this connection. On December 19, 2019, we searched six bibliographic databases for data on the neurobiology of grief and disordered grief. We excluded studies of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, animal studies, and reviews. After abstract and full-text screening, twenty-four studies were included in the final review. We found diverse evidence for the activation of several reward-related regions of the brain in PGD. The data reviewed suggest that compared to normative grief, PGD involves a differential pattern of activity in the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC); likely differential activity in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), rostral or subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and basal ganglia overall, including the nucleus accumbens (NAc); and possible differential activity in the insula. It also appears that oxytocin signaling is altered in PGD, though the exact mechanism is unclear. Our findings appear to be consistent with, though not confirmative of, conceptualizing PGD as a disorder of reward, and identify directions for future research.

We leverage the notion that abstraction enables prediction to generate novel insights and hypotheses for the literatures on attitudes and mate preferences. We suggest that ideas about liking (e.g., evaluations of categories or overall traits) are more abstract than experiences of liking (e.g., evaluations of particular exemplars), and that ideas about liking may facilitate mental travel beyond the here-and-now.

Long-term data on robot-assisted sacrocolporectopexy for the treatment of multicompartment pelvic organ prolapse are scarce. With the rising prevalence of prolapse and increasing surgical repair, it is essential to evaluate long-term results. This study aimed to evaluate long-term functional and anatomic outcomes after sacrocolporectopexy. This is a prospective, observational cohort study. This study was conducted at a teaching hospital with tertiary referral function for patients with gynecological/rectal prolapse. All patients undergoing robot-assisted sacrocolporectopexy from 2011 to 2012 were included. Robot-assisted sacrocolporectopexy was performed. The primary outcome was the anatomic cure rate after 1 and 4 years, defined as simplified pelvic organ prolapse quantification stage 1 vaginal apical prolapse and no external rectal prolapse or internal rectal prolapse present. Kaplan-Meier curves were used for determination of recurrence-free intervals. Secondary outcomes were functional pelvic floor symptoms (symptoms of bulge, obstructed defecation, fecal incontinence, urogenital distress inventory) and quality of life (Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire). Fifty-three patients were included. After 12 and 48 months, the recurrence-free intervals based on Kaplan-Meier estimates were 100% and 90%. In total, there were 10 recurrences: 2 apical and 8 internal rectal prolapses. Symptoms of bulge (94%-12%; p < 0.0005), fecal incontinence (62%-32%; p < 0.0005), obstructed defecation (59%-24%; p = 0.008), and median Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire scores (124-5; p = 0.022) improved significantly at final follow-up. Median urogenital distress inventory scores showed improvement after 1 year (30-13; p = 0.021). This was an observational, single-center study with selective postoperative imaging. Ninety percent of patients were recurrence free 48 months after robot-assisted sacrocolporectopexy. Symptoms of vaginal bulge, quality of life, constipation, and fecal incontinence improved significantly. However, a subgroup of patients showed persistent bowel complaints that underlie the complexity of multicompartment prolapse. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B265. RESULTADOS ANATÓMICOS Y FUNCIONALES A LARGO PLAZO DE LA CIRUGÍA DE PISO PÉLVICO ASISTIDA POR ROBOT EN EL TRATAMIENTO DEL PROLAPSO MULTICOMPARTIMENTAL: UN ESTUDIO PROSPECTIVO: Los datos a largo plazo sobre la sacrocolporectopexia asistida por robot para el tratamiento del prolapso multicompartimental de órganos pélvicos son escasos. Con el aumento de la prevalencia del prolapso y el aumento de la reparación quirúrgica, es esencial evaluar los resultados a largo plazo.Evaluar los resultados funcionales y anatómicos a largo plazo después de la sacrocolporectopexia.Estudio prospectivo observacional de cohorte.Hospital de enseñanza con función de referencia terciaria para pacientes con prolapso ginecológico/rectal.Todos los pacientes sometidos a sacrocolporectopexia asistida por robot en 2011-2012.Sacrocolporectopexia asistida por robot.El resultado primario fue la tasa de curación anatómica a uno y cuatro años, definida como etapa 1 de prolapso apical vaginal en la cuantificación del prolapso de órganos pélvicos simplificado, y sin prolapso rectal externo o prolapso rectal interno presentes. Se utilizaron curvas de Kaplan Meier para determinar los intervalos libres de recurrencia. Los resultados secundarios fueron síntomas funcionales del piso pélvico (síntomas de abultamiento, obstrucción defecatoria, incontinencia fecal, inventario de molestias urogenitales) y calidad de vida (cuestionario de impacto del piso pélvico).Se incluyeron 53 pacientes. Después de 12 y 48 meses, el intervalo libre de recurrencia basado en las estimaciones con método Kaplan Meier fue del 100% y 90%, respectivamente. En total hubo diez recurrencias: dos apicales y ocho prolapsos rectales internos. Los síntomas de abultamiento (94% a 12%; p <0.0005), incontinencia fecal (62% a 32%; p <0.0005), obstrucción defecatoria (59% a 24%; p = 0.008) y puntajes promedio del cuestionario de impacto del piso pélvico (124 a 5; p = 0.022) mejoraron significativamente en el seguimiento final. Las puntuaciones medias del inventario de molestias urogenitales mostraron una mejoría después de un año (30 a 13; p = 0.021).Estudio observacional de centro único con imagenología postoperatoria selectiva.Noventa por ciento de los pacientes estaban libres de recurrencia 48 meses después de la sacrocolporectopexia asistida por robot. Los síntomas de abultamiento vaginal, la calidad de vida, el estreñimiento y la incontinencia fecal mejoraron significativamente. Sin embargo, un subgrupo de pacientes mostró molestias intestinales persistentes que subrayan a la complejidad del prolapso multicompartimental. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B265.

Anxiety and Depression in Transition - Desiderata for Improved Care and Research: Results of the Joint Task Force Transition of DGPPN and DGKJP 

We offer an interdisciplinary framework for understanding the expanded capacity for emotional awareness (EA) in humans relative to other animals, synthesizing work within computational neuroscience, evolutionary psychology, and comparative anatomy. We argue that disproportionate cortical expansion during human evolution reflects additional hierarchical levels of computational processing, allowing representation of multimodal regularities over longer timescales - affording abstract concept learning, internal simulation of distal future outcomes, and expanded working memory capacity. This allows for the ability to simulate emotions, learn emotion concepts, and manipulate them in working memory when deciding how to act. We also draw on the construct of life history strategy within evolutionary psychology to argue that individual differences in EA within humans can be understood as the result of tuning particular computational parameters to the predictability of long timescale socioemotional regularities of the local environment. We conclude by discussing the implications and testable hypotheses offered by our proposed framework.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is a widespread perception that eating disorders are predominantly women´s illnesses. Most studies in the field of eating disorders include predominantly women. Current eating disorder programmes are tailored to meet women´s needs. At the same time, studies show that the rate of eating disorders among men is rising. Men tend to seek help for their eating disorder late in the course of their illness; even when they do seek treatment, they run risk of being undiagnosed by health professionals. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We assessed the current knowledge on how men think and feel about their eating disorders and explored how this may affect their help-seeking behaviours and how they go about managing their eating disorders. Men experience unique symptoms and issues that may translate into unique treatment needs. There is a call to re-evaluate the current status quo for men with eating disorders regarding access to and receiving treatment for their eating disorders. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: It is becoming an increasing priority to effectively treat men with eating disorders. Men need to be recognized as stakeholders in eating disorder-associated health care delivery. Healthcare professionals should receive training about the nature of eating disorders in men. Eating disorder-specific treatments will require adaptations to mirror the needs of individuals rather than particular gender/sex entities. ABSTRACT: Objective Despite the widespread perception that eating disorders (EDs) are predominantly experienced by women and girls, the incidence rate among men has risen substantially in recent years. Men may face unique challenges accessing treatment, which can negatively affect prognosis. The present paper aimed to review men's thoughts and feelings about their ED, and their experiences of ED treatment. Method We conducted a systematic search for qualitative articles focusing on the treatment experiences of men with EDs. Results Nine studies met inclusion criteria. Key themes that emerged across the studies were as follows: (a) recognition of the ED, (b) help-seeking, (c) treatment characteristics and (d) patient characteristics. Given that EDs are widely regarded to exclusively affect women and girls, men were reluctant to recognize their EDs, faced minimization of their symptoms by health professionals and had difficulty finding treatments that were tailored to their unique needs and preferences as men. Conclusions The present findings may serve as reference points to design future ED-specific interventions that are more inclusive of men. Further studies are needed to explore the differential experiences of men across diagnostic categories and treatment types, as well as elucidate the potential role of men-only services.

Self-consciousness development takes place mainly in adolescence because the brain undergoes certain structural changes that facilitate abstract thinking and metacognition, thus favoring the development of identity. Despite the importance of self-consciousness for mental health, there are no specific measurement instruments for Spanish adolescents. The objective of this study was to explore the dimensions of self-consciousness among Spanish adolescents aged between 13 and 18 years and validate the Chinese Adolescent Self-Consciousness Questionnaire (ASC) in this population. A second-order confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was conducted in accordance with previous validations of the ASC, using R Studio and the Lavaan package, to test its adequacy in a Spanish sample. Internal consistency and temporal stability were also tested, and evidence of validity was found. The results showed a good fit to the model eliminating four items with poor fit indices, CFI = .90, TLI = .89, RMSEA = .078, 95% CI [.076, .080]. Higher self-consciousness was associated with greater self-esteem and lower depressive symptomatology. No significant gender differences were found. This study provides a valid measure to evaluate self-consciousness in Spanish adolescents. The relationship established between self-consciousness and anxiety and depression requires further study as self-consciousness is involved in the development and maintenance of adolescent psychopathology.

To investigate the mental status of pregnant women and to determine their obstetric decisions during the COVID-19 outbreak. Cross-sectional study. Two cities in China--Wuhan (epicentre) and Chongqing (a less affected city). A total of 1947 pregnant women. We collected demographic, pregnancy and epidemic information from our pregnant subjects, along with their attitudes towards COVID-19 (using a self-constructed five-point scale). The Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS) was used to assess anxiety status. Obstetric decision-making was also evaluated. The differences between cities in all of the above factors were compared and the factors that influenced anxiety levels were identified by multivariable analysis. Anxiety status and its influencing factors. Obstetric decision-making. Differences were observed between cities in some background characteristics and women's attitudes towards COVID-19 in Wuhan were more extreme. More women in Wuhan felt anxious (24.5 versus 10.4%). Factors that influenced anxiety also included household income, subjective symptom and attitudes. Overall, obstetric decisions also revealed city-based differences; these decisions mainly concerned hospital preference, time of prenatal care or delivery, mode of delivery and infant feeding. The outbreak aggravated prenatal anxiety and the associated factors could be targets for psychological care. In parallel, key obstetric decision-making changed, emphasising the need for pertinent professional advice. Special support is essential for pregnant mothers during epidemics. The COVID-19 outbreak increased pregnant women's anxiety and affected their decision-making.

Recent scholarship has been divided on whether an observed increase in suicides in the United States among teenagers and preteens (12-18) can be attributed to an increased use in social screen media beginning in 2009. If these concerns are accurate effect sizes for the relationship between screen use and suicide should increase over the 16 years since 2001. The current study used the Florida Youth Risk Behavior Survey data (n = 45,992) from 2001 to 2017, to track effect sizes for screen/depression correlations, controlling for age and gender. A second dataset from the UK Understanding Society dataset (ns for each wave ranged between 3,536 and 4,850) was used to study associations between time spent on social media and emotional problems. Metaregression was be used to examine whether effect sizes increase across time. Results generally did not support the hypothesis that effect sizes between screen and social media use are increasing over time. Aside from the trends over time, for any given year, most effect sizes were below the r = .10 threshold used for interpretation with the exception of computer use which was just at that threshold. It is concluded that screens and social media use are unlikely to bear major responsibility for youth suicide trends. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=76S7cxiaU88.

Uncertainty about the emotional impact of future events is a common part of everyday life. However, relatively little is known about whether the level of uncertainty about the affective nature of an upcoming visual image influences anticipatory neurocognitive processes. To investigate this, participants viewed a series of negative and neutral pictures, which were preceded by abstract anticipatory cues. Neural activity was measured using event-related potentials (ERPs). In the 'uncertain' cue condition, the cue could be followed by either a negative or a neutral picture with equal probability; in the 'fairly uncertain' condition the cue was followed by a negative picture on 70% of trials, and by a neutral picture on 30% of trials. In the 'certain' condition, the cue was always followed by a negative picture. For the P200 component, reflecting early stages of selective attention, there was no amplitude difference between cue conditions. At later stages of processing, the early posterior negativity (EPN) amplitude was enhanced for cues indicating a greater level of certainty, and the late positive potential (LPP) amplitude was greater for certain, compared to fairly uncertain and uncertain cues. The stimulus preceding negativity (SPN), an index of anticipatory processing, was more negative for certain cues compared to fairly uncertain and uncertain cues. For the SPN there was no difference between fairly uncertain and uncertain cues. These results provide evidence that the level of uncertainty regarding the affective nature of an upcoming picture influenced several stages of processing during the anticipation of the stimulus.

Pregnancy can be a stressful time for many women; however, it is unclear if higher stress and depressive symptoms are associated with poorer diet quality during pregnancy. The aims for this narrative review were to (1) synthesize findings of original, peer-reviewed studies that examined associations of stress and/or depressive symptoms with diet quality during pregnancy; (2) review the measurement tools used to assess stress, depressive symptoms, and diet quality; (3) identify current gaps in the extant literature; and (4) offer recommendations for future research. A search strategy was used to identify peer-reviewed manuscripts published between January 1997 and October 2018, using the following databases: PubMed, CINAHL Complete, PsycINFO, Academic Search Complete, and Psychology & Behavioral Sciences Collection. The search was updated December 2019. Two reviewers independently assessed title, abstract, and full-text of the studies that met the inclusion criteria. Data were extracted and a quality assessment was conducted. Twenty-seven observational studies were identified in this review (21 cross-sectional and 6 longitudinal). In 22 studies, higher stress and/or depressive symptoms were associated with poorer diet quality or unhealthy dietary patterns; 5 studies found no association. Findings are mixed and inconclusive regarding the relationship among stress, depressive symptoms, and food groups related to diet quality and frequency of fast-food consumption. The current data suggest stress and depressive symptoms may be a barrier to proper diet quality during pregnancy; however, variability in the assessment tools, timing of assessments, and use of covariates likely contribute to the inconsistency in study findings. Gaps in the literature include limited use of longitudinal study designs, limited use of comprehensive diet-quality indices, underrepresentation of minority women, and lack of multilevel theoretical frameworks. Studies should address these factors to better assess associations of stress and/or depressive symptoms with diet quality during pregnancy.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of interventions for people with dementia, based on cost per quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, requires that the measures used to derive QALYs are preference-based whilst also being valid, feasible to use, comprehensible and acceptable for people with dementia. The aim of this study was to assess the content and face validity of six preference-based measures (PBMs) within the context of dementia. Qualitative focus groups and interviews were conducted with community-dwelling individuals with mild dementia and carers of people with dementia. After exploring participants' understanding of 'quality of life' (QoL), six PBMs were assessed for content and face validity: two measures assessing health-related QoL (EQ-5D-5L and AQoL-8D); two covering broader aspects of capability wellbeing and social care-related QoL (ICECAP-O and ASCOT); and two dementia-specific QoL measures (DEMQOL-U and AD-5D). A random mix of one health-related QoL measure, one wellbeing measure, and one dementia-specific measure was explored in each session. All sessions were audiotaped and transcribed verbatim. Data were analysed thematically. Nine individuals with mild dementia and 17 carers of people with dementia participated across 4 focus groups and 10 interviews. Participants perceived 9 broad QoL domains as relevant to them: Activity, Autonomy, Cognition, Communication, Coping, Emotions, End-of-Life, Physical Functioning, and Relationships. These domains had limited overlap with the content of the six PBMs. Assessment of face validity was summarized into eight themes: (1) ambiguous questions, (2) double -barrelled questions, (3) difficult/abstract questions, (4) judgemental/confronting questions, (5) lack of relevance and comprehensiveness, (6) response options, (7) layout/format and (8) proxy-response. There was no clear preference for one of the six measures explored; participants identified advantages and disadvantages across all measures. Although particularly designed for individuals with dementia, dementia-specific QoL measures were not always favoured over non-specific measures. Given the shortcomings of PBMs identified in this study, further empirical comparative analyses are necessary to guide the selection of PBMs for future dementia research.

Knowledge of predictive factors can foster the development of preventive approaches. This study examined how prevalence and severity of fall-related activity avoidance evolve over a 3-year period in people with Parkinson disease (PD). A specific aim was to identify predictive factors of fall-related activity avoidance (ie, modified Survey of Activities and Fear of Falling in the Elderly [mSAFFE] scores) after 3 years. The sample included 151 people with PD (mean [SD] age: 68 [8.8] years). The mSAFFE score was the dependent variable in multivariable linear regression analyses, with 17 potential predictors. On the basis of a collinearity check, 2 models studying various risk factors were developed. Model 1 included concerns about falling and model 2 walking difficulties. After 3 years, more participants reported fall-related activity avoidance, that is, 34% versus 50% (P < 0.001). Regression model 1 explained 63% of the variance. The strongest predictive factor was concerns about falling (standardized regression coefficient, β = 0.589), followed by pain (β = 0.161), unsteadiness while turning (β = 0.137), and age (β = 0.136). These variables remained significant when adjusting for mSAFFE baseline scores.In model 2 (explained 50% of the variance), the strongest predictive factor was perceived walking difficulties (β = 0.392), followed by age (β = 0.238), unsteadiness while turning (β = 0.198), and pain (β = 0.184). Unlike the other factors, walking difficulties were not significant when adjusting for mSAFFE baseline scores. Fall-related activity avoidance increased over time in people with PD. If fall-related activity avoidance is to be targeted, this study suggests that interventions should address concerns about falling, pain, unsteadiness while turning, and walking difficulties.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A310).

The embodied cognition paradigm has stimulated ongoing debate about whether sensory data - including color - contributes to the semantic structure of abstract concepts. Recent uses of linguistic data in the study of embodied cognition have been focused on textual corpora, which largely precludes the direct analysis of sensory information. Here, we develop an automated approach to multimodal content analysis that detects associations between words based on the color distributions of their Google Image search results. Crucially, we measure color using a transformation of colorspace that closely resembles human color perception. We find that words in the abstract domains of academic disciplines, emotions, and music genres, cluster in a statistically significant fashion according to their color distributions. Furthermore, we use the lexical ontology WordNet and crowdsourced human judgments to show that this clustering reflects non-arbitrary semantic structure, consistent with metaphor-based accounts of embodied cognition. In particular, we find that images corresponding to more abstract words exhibit higher variability in colorspace, and semantically similar words have more similar color distributions. Strikingly, we show that color associations often reflect shared affective dimensions between abstract domains, thus revealing patterns of aesthetic coherence in everyday language. We argue that these findings provide a novel way to synthesize metaphor-based and affect-based accounts of embodied semantics.

Depression is highly prevalent and marked by a chronic and recurrent course. Despite being a major cause of disability worldwide, little is known regarding the determinants of its heterogeneous course. Machine learning techniques present an opportunity to develop tools to predict diagnosis and prognosis at an individual level. We examined baseline (2008-2010) and follow-up (2012-2014) data of the Brazilian Longitudinal Study of Adult Health (ELSA-Brasil), a large occupational cohort study. We implemented an elastic net regularization analysis with a 10-fold cross-validation procedure using socioeconomic and clinical factors as predictors to distinguish at follow-up: (1) depressed from non-depressed participants, (2) participants with incident depression from those who did not develop depression, and (3) participants with chronic (persistent or recurrent) depression from those without depression. We assessed 15 105 and 13 922 participants at waves 1 and 2, respectively. The elastic net regularization model distinguished outcome levels in the test dataset with an area under the curve of 0.79 (95% CI 0.76-0.82), 0.71 (95% CI 0.66-0.77), 0.90 (95% CI 0.86-0.95) for analyses 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Diagnosis and prognosis related to depression can be predicted at an individual subject level by integrating low-cost variables, such as demographic and clinical data. Future studies should assess longer follow-up periods and combine biological predictors, such as genetics and blood biomarkers, to build more accurate tools to predict depression course.

Perinatal loss is a traumatic and complex experience that contributes to negative maternal psychological states and adverse outcomes impacting fetal development, maternal-fetal/infant bonding, marital/partner relationships, and child cognitive, emotional, and behavioral development. These outcomes present preventable disease burden and financial liability to individuals, families, and the healthcare system. Psychological interventions have the potential to improve outcomes for women and their families after perinatal loss. A few studies have explored the effectiveness of individual psychotherapeutic interventions in reducing maternal psychological distress after perinatal loss; however, a systematic review to compare these interventions has not been conducted. The primary objective of this systematic review is to determine the effectiveness of psychotherapeutic intervention on psychological distress and perception, coping, and adjustment in women who have experienced perinatal loss. The secondary objective of this review is to examine the content and delivery methods of effective psychotherapeutic interventions. We endeavor to search electronic databases (PsycINFO, MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Scopus, CINAHL, Social Work Abstracts, Family and Society Studies Worldwide, Family Studies Abstracts, Academic Search Premier), gray literature databases (Proquest Dissertation and Theses Global, Web of Science Conference Proceedings Citation Index, OAIster, Open-Grey, Canadian Electronic Library, Canadian Research Index), and relevant organizational websites and conduct forward and backward citation searches of included studies. Inclusion criteria will consider studies that (1) are randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quasi-experimental (e.g., before-after design), and observational (prospective cohort); (2) include women affected by perinatal loss accessing psychotherapeutic intervention or support; and (3) evaluate a mental health or related outcome. Two authors will independently screen all citations, full-text articles, and abstract data. The study methodological quality (or bias) will be appraised using an appropriate tool. The primary outcome(s) will be measurements on the severity of depressive, anxiety, grief, and post-traumatic stress symptoms. Secondary outcomes will include measurements on difficulties in perception, coping, social, or dyadic adjustment. Conducting a narrative synthesis will identify relationships within study findings, and if appropriate, a random effects meta-analysis will be performed. This systematic review will summarize the effectiveness of psychological interventions, including their content and delivery method, in reducing psychological distress and improving outcomes for women affected by perinatal loss. The evidence generated from this review can inform researchers and policymakers in expanding on related research and developing customized interventions or programs. PROSPERO CRD42019126456.

Abstract. Intimate partner violence (IPV) is an important risk factor for perinatal depression (PND). But IPV's impact on the natural prognosis of PND symptoms is not well understood. We tested two hypotheses: (1) pregnant women with IPV experiences will exhibit more severe PND symptoms than women without IPV experience; (2) IPV experience will impede the recovery prognosis of PND. We also explored the contribution of IPV to PND comparing with other risk factors. The sample is comprised of 813 pregnant women followed through perinatal period in Hunan, China. We assessed IPV experience using items from the Short Form of the Revised Conflict Tactics Scale (CTS2S), and PND symptoms via the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPSD). We conducted Linear Mixed-effects Model to compare the trajectories of PND symptoms between victims and non-victims and a multistage Generalised Estimating Equations Model to explore salient factors on the trajectory of PND symptoms. There were 90 participants (11.07%) who reported IPV experience in the past 12 months. With respect to physical, psychological and sexual violence, the prevalence was 4.55% (37/813), 9.23% (75/813) and 2.34% (19/813). Victims reported more severe PND symptoms (t = 5.30, p < 0.01) and slower decreasing slope of trajectories (t = 28.89, p < 0.01). The PND trajectory was associated with IPV experience (OR = 3.78; 95% CI 1.39-10.26), social support (OR = 0.93; 95% CI 0.88-0.97), positive coping strategies (OR = 0.85; 95% CI 0.80-0.91), negative coping strategies (OR = 1.25; 95% CI 1.14-1.37) and monthly income of $0.15-$298.36 (compared to no income, OR = 0.0075; 95% CI 0.00052-0.11). The findings suggest the reported prevalence of IPV is lower in Hunan than most of the previous studies during perinatal period in other provinces of China, and IPV victimisation is associated with increased severity and slowed prognosis of PND symptoms. Future studies that screen for victimisation and establish its explicit mechanism to the poorer prognosis of PND symptoms would benefit the prevention and treatment of PND.

The information available through our senses is noisy, incomplete, and ambiguous. Our perceptual systems have to resolve this ambiguity to construct stable and reliable percepts. Previous EEG studies found large amplitude differences in two event-related potential (ERP) components 200 and 400 ms after stimulus onset when comparing ambiguous with disambiguated visual information ("ERP Ambiguity Effects"). These effects so far generalized across classical ambiguous figures from different visual categories at lower (geometry, motion) and intermediate (Gestalt perception) levels. The present study aimed to examine whether these ERP Effects are restricted to ambiguous figures or whether they also occur for different degrees of visibility. Smiley faces with low and high visibility of emotional expressions, as well as abstract figures with low and high visibility of a target curvature were presented. We thus compared ambiguity effects in geometric cube stimuli with visibility in emotional faces, and with visibility in abstract figures. ERP Effects were replicated for the geometric stimuli and very similar ERP Effects were found for stimuli with emotional face expressions but also for abstract figures. Conclusively, the ERP amplitude effects generalize across fundamentally different stimulus categories and show highly similar effects for different degrees of stimulus ambiguity and stimulus visibility. We postulate the existence of a high-level/meta-perceptual evaluation instance, beyond sensory details, that estimates the certainty of a perceptual decision. The ERP Effects may reflect differences in evaluation results.

The high prevalence and severe consequences of antenatal and postnatal depression makes their prevention critical. Previous systematic reviews and meta-analysis have shown the effects of psychological interventions on perinatal depression in individuals at risk. However, none have focused explicitly on universal prevention in the antenatal period. The purpose of this study is to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify the effects of antenatal psychological interventions on perinatal depression, specifically focusing on universal prevention. Four electronic databases, the Cochrane Controlled Register of Trials (CENTRAL), Embase, PubMed, and PsycINFO, were used to search for published randomized controlled trials from inception to January 28, 2019. Twelve investigators conducted the first screening from title and abstract, individually, and then NY and ZN performed full-text review one by one. For the meta-analysis, a random effect model was conducted by using Review Manager 5.3 for Windows. Subgroup analyses were also conducted for studies that employed a cognitive behavioral (CB) based approach. A total of 13,026 studies were initially searched. After removing duplicates, 9,919 studies were screened, and finally 18 studies met the inclusion criteria. The meta-analysis showed a significant effect of antenatal psychological intervention on both antenatal and postnatal depression (SMD = 0.28, 95% CI = 0.11 to 0.44, SMD = 0.37, 95% CI = 0.08 to 0.66) with moderate to high level of heterogeneity (I Limitations include a language bias, as we included only studies published in English, and that the assessment of antenatal and postnatal depression using different methods caused high heterogeneity across studies. Psychological intervention in an antenatal period could be effective for universal prevention of both antenatal and postnatal depression. However, the results were still inconclusive due to relatively low methodological quality in the included studies. The evidence from more well-designed trials is needed in future studies.

Cognitive models of obsessive-compulsive disorder attribute a causal role to maladaptive beliefs. To test this hypothesis, we manipulated Overimportance of Thoughts (OT) beliefs and experimentally evaluated their effect on the response to an induced aggressive impulse. Eighty-five participants completed a battery of self-report instruments assessing obsession symptoms, thought control, affectivity and obsessive beliefs, and were then randomly assigned to two conditions. In the experimental condition participants read a scientific abstract on the importance of thought control whilst those in the control condition read a neutral abstract. All participants identified a loved person and imagined feeling the impulse to stab this person, then completed again OT beliefs measures (Overimportance of Thought, Moral-Thought Action Fusion and Thought Action Fusion Likelihood). The Moral component of the Thought Action Fusion was reduced by reading a brief text about the possibility and desirability of thought control. However, experimentally induced changes in beliefs did not yield differences in the intrusiveness of the aggressive impulse. Some beliefs can be modified through a single session in which information similar to what could be obtained in quotidian life is provided.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is very limited literature on the health of Middle Eastern immigrants in the United States, and the available studies were mostly conducted on small convenient samples in local communities. There is also a need to understand changes in the rates of serious psychological distress (SPD) during the 15 years after 2001, as there were negative effects on Arabs' health since the September 2001 aftermath. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The study examined the rates of SPD, the risk of SPD and its associated factors in a national sample of Middle Eastern immigrants in the United States from 2001 to 2015. The study found that serious psychological distress rate was high among Middle Eastern immigrants. Being a female and having obesity were associated with a higher risk of reporting serious psychological distress among this population. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: These outcomes necessitate mental health nursing interventions that provide culturally sensitive mental health care to immigrants For example, developing community-based prevention programmes is required to address risk factors of psychological distress and to increase awareness about psychological distress among Middle Eastern immigrants. ABSTRACT: Introduction While Middle Eastern immigrants are a fast-growing population in the United States, there is very limited literature on their mental health. Most of the available studies were conducted on small convenient samples in local communities. Aims To examine rates of serious psychological distress (SPD) and its associated factors among Middle Eastern immigrants in the United States, compared with US-born, non-Hispanic Whites. Methods Data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) from 2001 to 2015 were analysed. The survey included 1,246 Middle Eastern immigrants and 232,392 US-born, non-Hispanic Whites. SPD was measured by the Kessler-6 psychological distress scale. Survey analysis procedures, sampling weights and variance estimates were conducted. Descriptive statistics and regression analyses were employed to examine differences and factors associated with SPD. Results SPD rate was the highest among Middle Eastern immigrants (5.99%) between 2006 and 2010. Among Middle Eastern immigrants, being female and obese were significantly associated with a higher risk of SPD. Discussion Middle Eastern immigrants in the United States suffered high rates of SPD. Gender and obesity were factors associated with SPD risk. Implications These outcomes indicate the need for mental health nursing interventions that provide culturally sensitive mental health care to immigrants, such as developing community-based prevention programmes.

High-risk pregnancy refers to a pregnancy that negatively affects the health of the mother, the baby, or both. High-risk pregnancy evokes a range of emotional and psychological experiences for the expectant mother, and can adversely affect both the mother and the baby's health. Medical research on high-risk pregnancy abounds, while women's emotional/psychological experiences are not sufficiently documented, and hence much less attention and/or programming is directed to support women with high risk pregnancies. The aim of this review is to present published evidence of how studies reported on the emotional and psychological experiences of a woman's high-risk pregnancy journey. The systematic review examined qualitative studies over a 10 year period that were published between January 2006 and June 2017. These studies were identified on 10 databases. The study utilised three stages of review (i.e. abstract reading, title reading, and full-text reading) and for a successful conduction of the meta-synthesis, this study applied one of the phases provided by Noblit and Hare. The findings provide empirical evidence that women's emotional and psychological experiences (i.e. shock, fear, frustration, grief, isolation and loneliness, anger, sadness, guilt, and mental health disorder) are evident throughout their high-risk pregnancies experience.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Coercive interventions (CI) in emergency psychiatry face increasing criticism, as they can be an emotional, even traumatic event for all persons involved. They are thus considered the last resort. The use of coercive interventions differs widely with regard to type and frequency of measures across different countries and institutions. Individual staff characteristics, such as attitudes towards coercion, may play a vital role in the management of aggression. Little is known about the influence of emotions of staff members on CI, but they are likely to play an important role. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Most staff members surveyed had a rather critical view of coercion and considered it a "necessary evil." Staff members with the most work experience had a more critical view of coercion in comparison with less experienced staff. Nurses rated coercion more positively than did psychiatrists or psychologists. Emotions play an important role in decision-making processes. The current study systematically asked for accompanying emotions during the application of CI and looked for individual differences. A majority of the participants experienced compassion; about half felt helplessness, grief or anxiety. Almost 20% stated that they felt a sense of power. Older staff members more often felt anger or guilt; women felt less power than men did. Nurses felt more desperation than other occupational groups. Staff members consider reflective interventions, such as team supervisions or post-seclusion/restraint debriefings with the patient, as important. Nevertheless, only half reported that these interventions are carried out routinely. Staff members believe that certain risk factors (including stress, low staffing, a fully occupied ward and the presence of particular staff members) enhance the probability of CI. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: To reduce the use of coercive interventions, we recommend that psychiatric teams include highly experienced staff members as work experience has a positive effect on the attitudes towards coercive interventions. Structured post-seclusion/restraint debriefings and team supervisions are considered helpful by staff members and are relatively easy to implement on acute wards. Enhancing staff members' ability to reflect on their own attitudes, emotions and actions is likely to reduce coercive interventions. ABSTRACT: Introduction Little is known about staff attitudes towards coercive interventions (CI) and emotions accompanying these measures. Aim The current study assessed attitudes, views on reflective interventions and accompanying emotions of different occupational groups towards CI, as well as factors, that increase the probability of CI. Method Staff members (N = 138) of a large psychiatric hospital in Germany were assessed using the Staff Attitude to Coercion Scale (SACS) and newly developed items assessing staff members' emotions and views on coercion. Results Experienced staff members were most critical of coercion. Nurses rated coercion significantly more positively than other staff. A majority experienced compassion; about half felt helplessness, grief or anxiety. Almost 20% felt a sense of power. Nurses felt the most desperation. Participants strongly desired reflective measures such as post-seclusion/restraint debriefings with patients. According to staff members, stress on the wards and low staffing increases the probability of CI. Discussion The study assessed accompanying emotions during the application of CI. Attitudes towards coercion and emotions are associated with individual staff characteristics (e.g. profession, work experience). Implications The presence of experienced staff members may help prevent CI. Staff consider reflective interventions helpful in reducing CI.

Perturbations to the speech articulators induced by frequently using an interfering object during infancy (i.e., pacifier) might shape children's language experience and the building of conceptual representations. Seventy-one typically developing third graders performed a semantic categorization task with abstract, concrete and emotional words. Children who used the pacifier for a more extended period were slower than the others. Moreover, overusing the pacifier increased response time of abstract words, whereas emotional and (above all) concrete words were less affected. Results support the view that abstract words are grounded both in perception-action and in linguistic experience.

Depression and Violence: A Contradiction? 

Abstract-Chemogenetic activation of glutamatergic neurons of the prefrontal cortex reduces the manifestations of psychoemotional anxiety during the juvenile period of ontogenesis. This result is the first evidence of feasibility of targeted chemogenetic control of neuronal activity during the early stages of brain development.

In children and adolescents, anxiety disorders (ADs) are among the most prevalent mental disorders. While there is a solid empirical foundation to support CBT as an evidence-based treatment for childhood ADs, the mechanisms underlying the efficacy of CBT are not well explored. Exposure is assumed to be vital to the efficacy of CBT in ADs, but empirical evidence (e.g., dismantling studies) showing that exposure is indeed a vital element of effective treatments is relatively scarce. The proposed meta-analysis aims to investigate the role of exposure in reducing symptoms of anxiety among children and adolescents. A systematic search of several electronic databases including PubMed/MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Psyndex plus, Web of Science, Scopus, and EMBASE will be conducted (from inception onwards). We will include randomized and non-randomized clinical trials examining exposure and anxiety among children and adolescents. If feasible, we will also include experimental, quasi-experimental, and observational studies. The primary outcome will be improvement in anxiety levels (recovery or change in anxiety rating scale) after exposure. Three reviewers will independently screen all citations, abstract data, and full-text articles. The methodological quality (or risk of bias) of individual studies will be appraised using an appropriate tool. If feasible, we will conduct mixed effects meta-analysis. Additional analyses will be conducted to explore the potential sources of heterogeneity (e.g., dose of exposure, age group, methodological quality). This systematic review and meta-analysis will examine the role of exposure in reducing symptoms of anxiety among youth. The review will provide information on the working mechanisms underlying the efficacy of CBT. Our findings will be of interest to mental health professionals, researchers, and policy makers who wish to support children and adolescents with anxiety disorders by guiding well-informed treatment decisions. PROSPERO (CRD42019128667).

A parent's mental illness was viewed as a loss, like a death, causing profound grief. I learned how important parent-child communication is as an important factor in managing my own grief. A child's grief, in this case, from loss of a parent due to mental illness, as in death, was profound at the time and did affect many aspects of my life. The failure to intervene in a timely fashion impaired effective resolution of that grief. Assessment of family dynamics and communication is critical to building coping skills for any young child dealing with loss of parental support due to mental illness. Early intervention with young children in need of emotional support and security is needed to assist them with effective adaptation to grief and loss. It is expected that loss of a parent from death will undoubtedly cause children to grieve. With supportive interventions, children can recover and grow into healthy, well-adjusted adults. Severe mental illness in a parent, however, also creates loss by altering the parent-child relationship, often leaving children confused, frightened and feeling alone. In the past, family members, especially the remaining parent, might not have recognized the symptoms of a grieving child and the system at that time was not well prepared to assist them in meeting that need. This is the story of one such child.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The loss of a parent for an adult can be devastating and can impact other relationships. The adult, in absence of parental love and support, may question their own identity. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: A narrative is used to explain the adults' experience of parental death and their new identity of being orphaned. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Increased awareness for adults grieving the loss of a parent(s), as to the normalcy of feeling orphaned Adults grieving the death of a parent(s) are provided resources and support in addressing their grieving process. ABSTRACT: Introduction When a parent dies during their child's adulthood, the life of the adult is altered as the familiarity of parental love and safety changes. The isolation and loneliness penetrates deeply as the orphaned adult must now navigate their world in absence of the most significant people in their lives, their parents. Aim To assist persons affected by parental death in understanding the normalcy of feeling orphaned while grieving. Method The use of a personal narrative to provide mental health support to others. Results The resumption of a routine that existed before parental death is possible, but takes time. Intermittent periods of grief can occur throughout one's life. Discussion When grief interrupts one's ability to function daily and the affected adult has relationships impacted by their parent's death, it is recommended that the adult seek mental health treatment. Implications for Practice Narratives can be used with persons affected by parental loss, to provide an example of normal versus complicated grieving and identify when mental health treatment is needed.

Missed hospital outpatient appointments is a commonly reported problem in healthcare services around the world; for example, they cost the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK millions of pounds every year and can cause operation and scheduling difficulties worldwide. In 2002, the World Health Organization (WHO) published a report highlighting the need for a model of care that more readily meets the needs of people with chronic conditions. Patient-initiated appointment systems may be able to meet this need at the same time as improving the efficiency of hospital appointments. To assess the effects of patient-initiated appointment systems compared with consultant-led appointment systems for people with chronic or recurrent conditions managed in secondary care. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, and six other databases. We contacted authors of identified studies and conducted backwards and forwards citation searching. We searched for current/ongoing research in two trial registers. Searches were run on 13 March 2019. We included randomised trials, published and unpublished in any language that compared the use of patient-initiated appointment systems to consultant-led appointment systems for adults with chronic or recurrent conditions managed in secondary care if they reported one or more of the following outcomes: physical measures of health status or disease activity (including harms), quality of life, service utilisation or cost, adverse effects, patient or clinician satisfaction, or failures of the 'system'. Two review authors independently screened all references at title/abstract stage and full-text stage using prespecified inclusion criteria. We resolved disagreements though discussion. Two review authors independently completed data extraction for all included studies. We discussed and resolved discrepancies with a third review author. Where needed, we contacted authors of included papers to provide more information. Two review authors independently assessed the risk of bias using the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care 'Risk of bias' tool, resolving any discrepancies with a third review author. Two review authors independently assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. The 17 included randomised trials (3854 participants; mean age 41 to 76 years; follow-up 12 to 72 months) covered six broad health conditions: cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease. The certainty of the evidence using GRADE ratings was mainly low to very low. The results suggest that patient-initiated clinics may make little or no difference to anxiety (odds ratio (OR) 0.87, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.68 to 1.12; 5 studies, 1019 participants; low-certainty evidence) or depression (OR 0.79 95% CI 0.51 to 1.23; 6 studies, 1835 participants; low-certainty evidence) compared to the consultant-led appointment system. The results also suggest that patient-initiated clinics may make little or no difference to quality of life (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.12, 95% CI 0.00 to 0.25; 7 studies, 1486 participants; low-certainty evidence) compared to the consultant-led appointment system. Results for service utilisation (contacts) suggest there may be little or no difference in service utilisation in terms of contacts between the patient-initiated and consultant-led appointment groups; however, the effect is not certain as the rate ratio ranged from 0.68 to 3.83 across the studies (median rate ratio 1.11, interquartile (IQR) 0.93 to 1.37; 15 studies, 3348 participants; low-certainty evidence). It is uncertain if service utilisation (costs) are reduced in the patient-initiated compared to the consultant-led appointment groups (8 studies, 2235 participants; very low-certainty evidence). The results suggest that adverse events such as relapses in some conditions (inflammatory bowel disease and cancer) may have little or no reduction in the patient-initiated appointment group in comparison with the consultant-led appointment group (MD -0.20, 95% CI -0.54 to 0.14; 3 studies, 888 participants; low-certainty evidence). The results are unclear about any differences the intervention may make to patient satisfaction (SMD 0.05, 95% CI -0.41 to 0.52; 2 studies, 375 participants) because the certainty of the evidence is low, as each study used different questions to collect their data at different time points and across different health conditions. Some areas of risk of bias across all the included studies was consistently high (i.e. for blinding of participants and personnel and blinding of outcome assessment, other areas were largely of low risk of bias or were affected by poor reporting making the assessment unclear). Patient-initiated appointment systems may have little or no effect on patient anxiety, depression and quality of life compared to consultant-led appointment systems. Other aspects of disease status and experience also appear to show little or no difference between patient-initiated and consultant-led appointment systems. Patient-initiated appointment systems may have little or no effect on service utilisation in terms of service contact and there is uncertainty about costs compared to consultant-led appointment systems. Patient-initiated appointment systems may have little or no effect on adverse events such as relapse or patient satisfaction compared to consultant-led appointment systems.

ruminative processing and recalling memories from an observer perspective represent two cognitive processes with adverse consequences in depression. However, no study to date has investigated the interrelationship of abstract processing, observer perspective and depression symptoms in the context of recalling personal emotional (positive, negative) memories, nor imagining emotional future events. An unselected online sample (

A number of recent models of semantics combine linguistic information, derived from text corpora, and visual information, derived from image collections, demonstrating that the resulting multimodal models are better than either of their unimodal counterparts, in accounting for behavioral data. Empirical work on semantic processing has shown that emotion also plays an important role especially in abstract concepts; however, models integrating emotion along with linguistic and visual information are lacking. Here, we first improve on visual and affective representations, derived from state-of-the-art existing models, by choosing models that best fit available human semantic data and extending the number of concepts they cover. Crucially then, we assess whether adding affective representations (obtained from a neural network model designed to predict emojis from co-occurring text) improves the model's ability to fit semantic similarity/relatedness judgments from a purely linguistic and linguistic-visual model. We find that, given specific weights assigned to the models, adding both visual and affective representations improves performance, with visual representations providing an improvement especially for more concrete words, and affective representations improving especially the fit for more abstract words.

Recognition of Psychiatric Symptoms in Inpatient Long-Term Care 

Improving brain tumor survival rates have drawn increasing focus on neuropsychiatric and psychological outcomes. This review characterizes the literature on neuropsychiatric sequelae after neurosurgical resection of adult brain tumors. Using a scoping method, we reviewed articles describing patients with adult brain tumor who underwent partial or total brain resection and examined major neuropsychiatric domains after intervention. The initial search yielded 9903 articles. After duplicate removal, abstract screening, review, and hand searching, 81 articles were found: 63 empirical and 18 nonempirical. Most articles centered on survivorship within the first year. Cognition was most widely studied with a transient worsening during the first month and usually recovery or improvement thereafter. Depression increased in frequency during survivorship and was associated with frontotemporal location, time to survival, quality of life, cognitive and physical parameters, and functional status. Anxiety, independent of depression, related to tumor histology and grading and had a weaker association with cognition and quality of life. Obsessive-compulsive symptoms, psychosis, mania, and delirium received little attention. Most studies did not include preoperative neuropsychiatric assessment, and treatment was poorly addressed. This review highlights key gaps, including preoperative and postoperative neuropsychiatric assessment and a short follow-up. A better understanding of postresection neuropsychiatric outcomes can inform our ability to prognosticate and tailor management for patients at risk for these life-impairing conditions.

Here we advance the proposal that in addition to the importance of emotion words, the dynamics of allostatic regulation play a central role in emotion concept development. We argue for a comprehensive extension of constructed emotion theory to emotional development. To do so, we emphasize possible mechanisms for emotion concept differentiation that may occur before linguistic and semantic skills necessary for constructing and using abstract concepts are sufficiently developed. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

Self-care behaviors in people living with type 2 diabetes are important to achieving optimal glycemic control. Major depression in type 2 diabetes is associated with decreased adherence to self-care behaviors. The association between subthreshold depression and self-care behaviors, however, has not previously been systematically reviewed. The objective of this review is to determine the association between subthreshold depression and self-care behaviors. A systematic search was performed in five electronic databases that included MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Emcare, and CINAHL. Any observational studies in adults with type 2 diabetes, investigating the association between subthreshold depression and any self-care behaviors, were included in the review. Qualitative studies, review articles, and gray literature were excluded. Two reviewers independently completed the title and abstract and full-text screening, appraised the study quality, and extracted the data. A third reviewer resolved any discrepancies between the reviewers if needed. Included articles were critically appraised using the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) Critical Appraisal Checklist. Meta-analyses were not conducted because criteria for conducting such analyses were not met. A total of 6408 articles were identified through the database searching. After the abstract and full-text review, two articles met the inclusion criteria. One of the included study was cross-sectional while the other was a longitudinal study. Both studies showed inconsistent findings in the association between subthreshold depression and self-care behaviors. Important risks of bias were identified in the included studies. The evidence from the two included studies on a possible association between subthreshold depression and self-care behaviors in adults with type 2 diabetes was not consistent and potentially biased. Our review established a gap in knowledge and suggests that further high-quality studies are needed to examine the association between subthreshold depression and self-care behaviors in people with type 2 diabetes. PROSPERO CRD42018116373.

No Abstract Available.

There is preliminary evidence for lavender as an anxiolytic agent through various routes of administration. Our goal is to elucidate the best route of administration for lavender as a treatment for anxiety. Thirteen electronic search engines were systematically scanned for relevant publications. The relevant articles were included after the title and abstract screening followed by the full-text screening. This study included randomized control trials reporting lavender for the treatment of anxiety. The protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD42017076711). Frequentist network meta-analysis and Bayesian meta-regression were conducted to report the best treatment modality and the effect of covariates on the effectiveness as an anxiolytic. Treatment arms were ordered according P-scores, where higher P-score indicates better treatment choice. Forty studies were eligible for qualitative analysis, and 32 were included in quantitative analysis. Lavender aromatherapy was the best approach for the treatment of anxiety among other lavender modalities at the first week recording [Standardized Mean Difference (SMD) = -0.57, 95% CI (-1.14-0.01), P-score = 0.72], in addition to achieve at the first time points [SMD = -0, 95% CI (-0.97 ̶ -0.16), P-score = 0.69], compared to placebo; however, lavender massage along with foot bath were found to be the most efficacious for anxiety treatment at the study endpoint [SMD = -1.10, 95% CI = (-7.41 ̶ 5.21), P-score = 0.65]. Furthermore, network meta-regression revealed that the duration of therapy influenced treatment, suggesting Silexan (oral lavender) 80 mg (first rank probability = .116) as the favorable option for anxiety in long-term treatment. Lavender aromatherapy is, clinically, superior in short-duration, while Silexan (oral lavender) 80 mg is preferable for long-term treatment of anxiety.

We review research showing that rumination has multiple negative consequences: (a) exacerbating psychopathology by magnifying and prolonging negative mood states, interfering with problem-solving and instrumental behaviour and reducing sensitivity to changing contingencies; (b) acting as a transdiagnostic mental health vulnerability impacting anxiety, depression, psychosis, insomnia, and impulsive behaviours; (c) interfering with therapy and limiting the efficacy of psychological interventions; (d) exacerbating and maintaining physiological stress responses. The mechanisms underlying rumination are examined, and a model (H-EX-A-GO-N - Habit development, EXecutive control, Abstract processing, GOal discrepancies, Negative bias) is proposed to account for the onset and maintenance of rumination. H-EX-A-GO-N outlines how rumination results from dwelling on problematic goals developing into a learnt habit that involves the tendency to process negative information in an abstract way, particularly in the context of poor executive control and negative information-processing biases. These proximal factors integrate experimental evidence to provide a partial answer to the critical question of what maintains rumination. They constitute a pathway by which more distal biological and environmental factors increase the likelihood of rumination developing. Treatments for rumination are reviewed, with preliminary trials suggesting that psychological interventions designed to specifically target these mechanisms may be effective at reducing rumination.

Romantic love has long intrigued scientists in various disciplines. Social-cognitive research has provided ample evidence for overlapping mental representations of self and romantic partner. This overlap between self and romantic partner would contribute to the experience of love and has been found to be a predictor of relationship quality. Self-partner overlap has been mainly documented at the level of conceptual or narrative self, with studies showing confusion between one's own and partner's identity aspects, perspectives, and outcomes. But the self is not restricted to abstract, conceptual representations but also involves body-related representations, which, research has revealed, are linked to social-cognitive processes. In this article, we review the emerging evidence that romantic love involves not only a blurring of conceptual selves but also a reduction of the distinction between self and romantic partner at a bodily level. We discuss the potential function(s) of self-other overlap in romantic relationship at the level of body-related representations and consider possible mechanisms. We conclude with possible future directions to further investigate how romantic love engages embodied self-other representations involved in social interactions.

To explore the role of psychological, social and contextual factors across the recovery stages (ie, acute, rehabilitation or return to sport (RTS)) following a traumatic time-loss sport-related knee injury. This review followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews and Arksey and O'Malley framework. Six databases were searched using predetermined search terms. Included studies consisted of original data written in English that identified or described a psychological, social or contextual factor related to recovery after a traumatic time-loss sport-related knee injury. Two authors independently conducted title-abstract and full-text reviews. Study quality was assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. Thematic analysis was undertaken. Of 7289 records, 77 studies representing 5540 participants (37% women, 84% anterior cruciate ligament tears, aged 14-60 years) were included. Psychological factors were investigated across all studies, while social and contextual factors were assessed in 39% and 21% of included studies, respectively. A cross-cutting concept of individualisation was present across four psychological (barriers to progress, active coping, independence and recovery expectations), two social (social support and engagement in care) and two contextual (environmental influences and sport culture) themes. Athletes report multiple barriers to recovery and valued their autonomy, having an active role in their recovery and diverse social support. Diverse psychological, social and contextual factors are present and influence all stages of recovery following a traumatic sport-related knee injury. A better understanding of these factors at the time of injury and throughout rehabilitation could assist with optimising injury management, promoting RTS, and long-term health-related quality-of-life.

Cross-sectional data on 2,434 men and women aging between 15 and 24 years were collected from the most recent Guyana Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey conducted in 2014. Outcome variables were perceived: satisfaction about health, life, and happiness, as well as life satisfaction before and after one year from the time of the survey. The urban-rural disparity in reporting satisfaction for these indicators was assessed by multivariate regression methods and by adjusting for relevant sociodemographic factors. More than four-fifth of the respondents reported satisfaction with health (82.4%) and life (81.4%) and 77.9% reported being happy. A vast majority expressed improvement in life situation compared with a year ago (81.4%), and nearly all of the participants (95.4%) expect to have better life situation a year later. Multivariate analysis revealed an inverse association between rural residence and subjective health among men [OR = 0.518, 95%CI = 0.297, 0.901], and happiness [OR = 0.662, 95%CI = 0.381, 0.845] and life satisfaction [OR = 3.722, 95%CI = 1.502, 9.227] among women. Women having secondary [OR = 2.219, 95%CI = 1.209, 3.720] and higher [OR = 1.600, 95%CI = 1.041, 3.302] education also had higher odds of satisfaction with happiness. Our findings demonstrate the existence of significant urban-rural disparities in perceived health and quality of life among the young adult population in Guyana, especially among women. National health promotion projects should therefore take proper policy actions to address the underlying factors contributing to the urban-rural gaps in order to establish a more equitable healthcare system. Further researches are necessary to explore the underlying causes behind such disparities.

Many children and adolescents suffer from problematic levels of anxiety, but the multitude of these children do not receive an intervention. It is of importance to increase the accessibility and availability of child anxiety interventions, as to identify and treat anxious children early and successfully. Online platforms that include information, assessments and intervention can contribute to this goal. Interventions for child anxiety are frequently based on Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, because of its strong theoretical and empirical basis. However, the working mechanisms of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy in children are poorly studied. To our knowledge, mediation studies on child anxiety are non-existent regarding online Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. We will aim at children aged 8-13 years with problematic anxiety. We recruit these children via the community setting, and refer them to our online platform 'Learn to Dare!' (in Dutch: 'Leer te Durven!'), https://leertedurven.ou.nl, where information about child anxiety and our research is freely accessible. After an active informed consent procedure, the participants can access the screening procedure, which will select the children with problematic anxiety levels. Thereafter, these children will be randomized to an online intervention based on Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (n = 120) or to a waitlist control (WL, n = 120). The intervention consists of 8 sessions with minimal therapist support and contains psycho-education, exposure (based on inhibitory learning), cognitive restructuring and relapse prevention. Child anxiety symptoms and diagnoses, cognitions, avoidance behavior and level of abstract reasoning are measured. Assessments are the same for both groups and are performed before and after the proposed working mechanisms are offered during the intervention. A follow-up assessment takes place 3 months after the final session, after which children in the waitlist control group are offered to take part in the intervention. This protocol paper describes the development of the online platform 'Learn to Dare!', which includes information about child anxiety, the screening procedure, anxiety assessments, and the online intervention. We describe the development of the online intervention. Offering easy accessible interventions and providing insight into the working mechanisms of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy contributes to optimizing Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for anxious youth.

The gut microbiota is closely associated with the bidirectional gut-brain axis that modulates neuropsychological functions of the central nervous system, thereby affecting mental disorders such as depression. Although it is known that probiotics affect brain functions, the impact of probiotics on the regulation of the prevalence and composition of gut microbiota, leading to anti-depressive effects has not been well understood. Mice were randomly divided into four different groups (n = 10 for each group) as follows: Group G1 (normal group) as control and group G2 (stress group) were given sterile saline via oral route daily for 8 weeks without and with stress condition, respectively. Under the stress condition, group G3 (fluoxetine group) was administered with fluoxetine hydrochloride and group G4 (probiotic group) was orally given multi-strains of probiotics daily for 8 weeks. After treatment, all mice underwent behavioral testing. Furthermore, fecal samples were collected from randomly selected 5 mice of each group on day 60 and taxonomical analysis of intestinal microbial distribution was performed. Mice subjected to restraint stress showed depressive-like behaviors along with high corticosterone levels in serum. However, probiotic administration alleviated depressive-like behaviors and decreased corticosterone level. Moreover, fecal microbiota was distinctly altered in probiotic-treated mice of the stress group. The relative abundance of phylum and genus levels was significantly decreased in the stress group, but probiotic administration restored the composition of microbes restored. Ingested probiotics alter the composition of gut microbiota, likely improving the symptoms of depression. Graphical abstract Probiotic administration alters gut microbiota and reduces depressive-like behaviors.

What is the central question of this study? How does an extract of Melissa officinalis L. ameliorate anxiety- and depressive-like behaviour of mice? What is the main finding and its importance? An extract of Melissa officinalis L. possessed anxiolytic and anti-depressant effects, which could mainly be mediated through its antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties. This study evaluated the effects of a hydro-alcoholic extract of Melissa officinalis (HAEMO) on anxiety- and depressive-like behaviours, oxidative stress and apoptosis markers in restraint stress-exposed mice. In order to induce a depression-like model, mice were subjected to restraint stress (3 h day

(1) To investigate the prevalence of poor sleep quality and (2) to explore the associations between clinical, cognitive, and emotional factors and quality of sleep in patients with chronic widespread pain (CWP) receiving multidisciplinary treatment. Baseline data were used from 163 patients with CWP referred for multidisciplinary treatment. Linear regression models were used to assess the relationship of clinical (pain, fatigue, pain interference, and disability), emotional (anxiety, depression, and psychological distress), and cognitive factors (catastrophizing, acceptance, self-efficacy, kinesiophobia and illness beliefs) with sleep quality, as measured using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Poor sleep quality was found in 92% of the patients. The multivariable model showed that a higher level of fatigue (b = 1.77, standard error [SE] = 0.62, β = 0.21, t = 2.87, P < 0.01), psychological distress (b = 0.02, SE = 0.01, β = 0.27, t = 3.50, P < 0.01), and more concerns about the illness (b = 0.46, SE = 0.18, β = 0.20, t = 2.57, P = 0.01) were independently associated with poorer quality of sleep. The overall linear regression model explains 27.9% of sleep quality. The high prevalence of poor sleep quality in patients with CWP referred for multidisciplinary treatment emphasizes the need to target sleep during treatment. Further research is needed to disentangle the cause-effect relationship between fatigue, psychological distress, and concerns about the illness and poor sleep (note: this abstract has been published before [Ann Rheum Dis. 2018;77:A1788]).

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Adolescents who partake in one health risk behaviour (HRB) easily adopt other HRBs, simultaneously or subsequently. Multiple HRBs might threaten adolescents' future health in adulthood. Adolescents with psychological problems have higher rates of smoking, alcohol use, early sexual initiation and activity, and illicit substance use compared with others. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: A considerable number of Korean adolescents with mental health problems were engaged in multiple HRBs. For those with mental health problems, more than half of the Korean adolescents with multiple HRBs tended to use alcohol and cigarettes concurrently. Korean adolescents who felt depressed and had suicidal ideation were more likely to engage in a greater number of HRBs. Substance abuse is the most prevalent problem that is combined with other HRBs among those with depression and suicidal ideation compared to those who exhibited other HRBs. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: When mental health nurses working in schools and community centres for mental health identify Korean adolescents with significant depression and suicide ideation levels, they should also assess adolescents' engagement in multiple HRBs. Population-based campaigns and policy changes that emphasize both psychological health and risky behaviour reduction among adolescents should be provided simultaneously to students and school nurses. ABSTRACT: Introduction There is limited understanding about whether poor mental health is associated with certain combinations of multiple health risk behaviours (HRBs) such as smoking, drinking, early sexual activity and substance abuse. Aim To determine the prevalence of multiple HRBs and to identify associations between poor mental health and multiple HRBs as the number of HRBs increases. Methods This cross-sectional study was conducted using the 2016 Korea Youth Risk Behavior Web-based Survey (N = 65,528). Descriptive statistics and multinomial logistic regression analyses were conducted using the complex sample data. Results Overall, 28.6% and 13.9% of Korean adolescents were involved in one or multiple HRBs, respectively. Adolescents who were depressed (OR = 1.43-4.47, 95% CI = 1.37-1.49 to 3.23-6.20) and/or who had suicidal ideation (OR = 1.33-3.19, 95% CI = 1.25-1.42 to 2.25-4.51) were more likely to engage in multiple HRBs. Discussion A considerable numbers of Korean adolescents are engaged in multiple HRBs. When adolescents self-reported depression and suicidal ideation, they were more likely to engage in a greater number of HRBs than single HRB. Implications for practice Tailored interventions to decrease multiple HRBs should be designed and provided by considering adolescents' mental health status and needs.

Accurate perception of emotional (facial) expressions is an essential social skill. It is currently debated whether emotion categorization in infancy emerges in a "broad-to-narrow" pattern and the degree to which language influences this process. We used an habituation paradigm to explore (a) whether 14- and 18-month-old infants perceive different facial expressions (anger, sad, disgust) as belonging to a superordinate category of negative valence and (b) how verbal labels influence emotion category formation. Results indicated that infants 

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Identify risk factors for late-life depression• Evaluate strategies to prevent late-life depression ABSTRACT: Late-life depression (LLD) is one of the major sources of morbidity and mortality in the world. Because LLD is related to increased public health burden, excess health care costs and utilization, reduced quality of life, and increased mortality, prevention is a priority. Older adults differ from younger adults with respect to key features, such as their chronicity and lifetime burden of depression and their constellation of comorbidities and risk factors. LLD likely arises from a complex interplay of risk factors, including medical, physiologic, psychosocial, behavioral, and environmental factors. Thus, a comprehensive understanding of LLD risk factors is necessary to inform prevention strategies. In this narrative literature review, we address both the risk architecture of LLD and several potential strategies for prevention. Our description of LLD risk factors and prevention approaches is informed by the framework developed by the National Academy of Medicine (formerly, Institute of Medicine), which includes indicated, selective, and universal approaches to prevention.

Metformin, an AMPK activator, is a widely used medicine for type II diabetes, which has been considered to exert the anti-inflammatory effects. It has been reported that inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of depression. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is often utilized to induce depressive-like behavior in mice with respect to recent studies. However, whether metformin alleviates the symptoms of depressive-like behaviors and its mechanisms remain unexplored. The present study investigates whether metformin alleviates LPS-induced depressive-like behavior in mice and aims to explore the mechanisms. We first treated adult mice with LPS (0.83  mg/kg, intraperitoneal) to induce depressive-like behavior model for 24  hours after treatment with or without metformin. Then, the effects of metformin on depressive-like behaviors were detected by tail suspension test and forced swim test. Moreover, quantitative RT-PCR was used to determine the mRNA expression levels of lipocalin 2 (Lcn-2) and inflammatory molecules including IL-1β, IL-6 and von Willebrand factor (vWF), which are concerned with inflammation and Lcn-2. It was shown that LPS-induced mouse depressive-like behaviors, as indicated by the increased time of immobility in tail suspension test and forced swim test, were reversed by metformin. It was also shown that LPS increased the mRNA expression levels of Lcn-2 and inflammation-related molecules such as IL-1β in the amygdala tissue, which could be alleviated by metformin. Taken together, metformin mitigates LPS-induced depressive-like behavior in mice by regulating the expression level of Lcn-2 and inflammation-related molecules, including IL-1β, IL-6 and vWF.Video abstract: http://links.lww.com/WNR/A568.

To explore the healthcare experiences of parents whose baby died either before, during or shortly after birth between 20 Qualitative interview study. England through two parent support organisations and four NHS Trusts. A purposive sample of parents. Thematic analysis of semi-structured in-depth narrative interviews. Parents' healthcare experiences. The key overarching theme to emerge from interviews with 38 parents was the importance of the terminology used to refer to the death of their baby. Parents who were told they were 'losing a baby' rather than 'having a miscarriage' were more prepared for the realities of labour, the birth experience and for making decisions around seeing and holding their baby. Appropriate terminology validated their loss, and impacted on parents' health and wellbeing immediately following bereavement and in the longer term. For parents experiencing the death of their baby at the margins between miscarriage, stillbirth and neonatal death, ensuring the use of appropriate terminology that reflects parents' preferences is vital. This helps to validate their loss and prepare them for the experiences of labour and birth. Reflecting parents' language preferences combined with compassionate bereavement care is likely to have a positive impact on parents' experiences and improve longer-term outcomes. Describing baby loss shortly before 24 weeks of gestation as a 'miscarriage' does not prepare parents for labour and birth, seeing their baby and making memories.

To determine the accuracy of single-reviewer screening in correctly classifying abstracts as relevant or irrelevant for literature reviews. We conducted a crowd-based, parallel-group randomized controlled trial. Using the Cochrane Crowd platform, we randomly assigned eligible participants to 100 abstracts each of a pharmacological or a public health topic. After completing a training exercise, participants screened abstracts online based on predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. We calculated sensitivities and specificities of single- and dual-reviewer screening using two published systematic reviews as reference standards. Two hundred and eighty participants made 24,942 screening decisions on 2,000 randomly selected abstracts from the reference standard reviews. On average, each abstract was screened 12 times. Overall, single-reviewer abstract screening missed 13% of relevant studies (sensitivity: 86.6%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 80.6%-91.2%). By comparison, dual-reviewer abstract screening missed 3% of relevant studies (sensitivity: 97.5%; 95% CI, 95.1%-98.8%). The corresponding specificities were 79.2% (95% CI, 77.4%-80.9%) and 68.7% (95% CI, 66.4%-71.0%), respectively. Single-reviewer abstract screening does not appear to fulfill the high methodological standards that decisionmakers expect from systematic reviews. It may be a viable option for rapid reviews, which deliberately lower methodological standards to provide decision makers with accelerated evidence synthesis products.

Emotion regulation patterns are shaped, in part, by the quality of interpersonal interactions during early development. Given the important contribution of caregiver emotion socialization, parenting programs targeting these socialization practices represent an effective method of preventative intervention for childhood difficulties with emotion regulation. This review examines emotion socialization parenting programs that target the development of emotion regulation in young children aged 0-6. Through a systematic search of multiple databases, 1117 articles were retrieved for title, abstract, and full-text screening. After screening, 12 articles remained and were summarized using a narrative approach. Herein, we provide an overview of 3 main intervention frameworks: Tuning in to Kids (TIK), Parent-Child Interaction Therapy-Emotion Development (PCIT-ED), and Emotion Enhanced Triple P (EETP). Overall, these emotion socialization programs have demonstrated efficacy in their ability to improve parenting behaviors related to the coaching of young children's emotion regulation; however, there has been limited examination of their effectiveness in promoting children's emotion regulation. Future research is required to address this limitation, with rigorous parenting intervention studies incorporating valid assessments of children's emotion regulation in order to promote children's development of adaptive emotion regulation. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Boredom is a big issue on inpatient mental health wards that is linked to poor patient satisfaction, feelings of frustration and increased incidents of self-harm and aggression. This is even more so for people detained under the Mental Health Act. Where wards have a good range of activities, for example art, music, computer games, gardening and exercise, service users felt less bored and had improved well-being. Over many years, studies have reported a lack of activities, especially during evenings and weekends. It has also been found that little is known about what activities service users want, or how activities might be meaningful for them. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This review found that very few studies have asked service users about what activities would be useful and why. By seeing what makes activities desirable and accessible, we can understand how to improve the experiences of service users on wards. Overall, these data help to understand what impact activities (or lack of activities) have on service users and staff experiences on these wards. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Through identifying the activities most appreciated and engaged with by service users and by asking service users what activities they would like available, we can inform best practice guidance for the commissioning and provision of inpatient mental health care. This will enable service provider organizations to target their effort and resources on supporting good practice and to redirect resources from less useful activities. ABSTRACT: Background Concern about the lack of activities on mental health inpatient wards is long-standing with reports consistently finding that service users receive insufficient access to a range of activities and report high levels of boredom. There is recognition that little is known about what service users want when admitted to inpatient wards. Aim This review seeks to understand service users' experiences and views in relation to the provision and availability of activities, and to explore the perceived benefits and barriers to service users. Methods We searched multiple databases (Scopus, MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsycINFO and Embase) for studies that evaluated activities on acute adult inpatient mental health wards. We identified 12 papers across a range of methodological designs from which the narrative synthesis has been analysed. Results Findings show that the provision of activities is unsatisfactory for many service users, which in turn is related to increased boredom that has a negative impact on service users' well-being. We explore the benefits and barriers to engagement, providing an insight into the aspects that make an activity important. Conclusion There are few studies exploring the needs of service users regarding activity provision; therefore, there is limited knowledge about what is meaningful for individuals.

The ability to extinguish conditioned fear memory is critical for adaptive control of fear response, and its impairment is a hallmark of emotional disorders like post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Fear extinction is thought to take place when animals form a new memory that suppresses the original fear memory. However, little is known about the nature and the site of formation and storage of this new extinction memory. Here we demonstrate that a fear extinction memory engram is formed and stored in a genetically distinct basolateral amygdala (BLA) neuronal population that drives reward behaviors and antagonizes the BLA's original fear neurons. Activation of fear extinction engram neurons and natural reward-responsive neurons overlap significantly in the BLA. Furthermore, these two neuronal subsets are mutually interchangeable in driving reward behaviors and fear extinction behaviors. Thus, fear extinction memory is a newly formed reward memory. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Apathy is a debilitating neurological syndrome known to be associated with executive dysfunction, particularly affecting abstract reasoning. However, the underlying cognitive mechanism remains unclear. Recently, it has been proposed that one cognitive process disrupted in apathy is option generation. We investigated whether impaired option generation could explain deficient reasoning in apathy. Data was retrospectively analyzed from patients with Parkinson's disease (

Dental anxiety in preschool children: How helpful are behavioral control management strategies? 

Social-emotional cues, such as affective vocalizations and emotional faces, automatically elicit emotional action tendencies. Adaptive social-emotional behavior depends on the ability to control these automatic action tendencies. It remains unknown whether neural control over automatic action tendencies is supramodal or relies on parallel modality-specific neural circuits. Here, we address this largely unexplored issue in humans. We consider neural circuits supporting emotional action control in response to affective vocalizations, using an approach-avoidance task known to reliably index control over emotional action tendencies elicited by emotional faces. We isolate supramodal neural contributions to emotional action control through a conjunction analysis of control-related neural activity evoked by auditory and visual affective stimuli, the latter from a previously published data set obtained in an independent sample. We show that the anterior pFC (aPFC) supports control of automatic action tendencies in a supramodal manner, that is, triggered by either emotional faces or affective vocalizations. When affective vocalizations are heard and emotional control is required, the aPFC supports control through negative functional connectivity with the posterior insula. When emotional faces are seen and emotional control is required, control relies on the same aPFC territory downregulating the amygdala. The findings provide evidence for a novel mechanism of emotional action control with a hybrid hierarchical architecture, relying on a supramodal node (aPFC) implementing an abstract goal by modulating modality-specific nodes (posterior insula, amygdala) involved in signaling motivational significance of either affective vocalizations or faces.

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is inconsistently associated with depression. These associations may depend on factors such as biological sex, age, and health status. Identifying such factors may help optimize treatment of HIV and depression. We implemented a novel approach to examine interindividual variability in the association between ART agents and depressive symptoms. 3434 women living with HIV (WLWH) from the Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) were computationally divided into subgroups based on sociodemographic (e.g., age) and longitudinal (from 1995 to 2016) behavioral and clinical profiles (e.g., substance use, HIV RNA, CD4 counts). Five subgroups (n's ranged from 482 to 802) were identified and characterized as those with: controlled HIV/vascular comorbidities; profound HIV legacy effects; younger women [<45 years of age] with hepatitis C; primarily 35-55 year olds; and poorly controlled HIV/substance use. Within each subgroup, we examined associations between ART agents used over the past 6 months and item-level depressive symptoms on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale. Tenofovir (4 of 5 subgroups) followed by efavirenz, emtricitabine, stavudine, lopinavir, etravirine, nelfinavir, ritonavir, and maraviroc were the most common agents associated with depressive symptoms, although the pattern and directionality varied by subgroup. For example, lopinavir was associated with fewer symptoms among the subgroup with a legacy HIV effect but more symptoms among the subgroup with well-controlled HIV/vascular comorbidities. Unexpectedly, dolutegravir and raltegravir were not associated with depressive symptoms among any subgroup. Findings underscore marked interindividual variability in ART agents on depression in WLWH. Sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral factors are important determinants of the relationship between ART agents and depressive symptoms in WLWH. Graphical Abstract Are antiretroviral agents a risk factor for depressive symptoms in women with HIV? We examined associations between ART-agents and depressive symptoms among similar subgroups of women with HIV from the Women's Interagency HIV Study. The patterns of associations depended on sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral characteristics of women.

This research shows that the two most prevalent religious constructs-God and religion-differentially impact cognition. Activating thoughts about God (vs. religion) induces a relatively more abstract (vs. concrete) mindset (Studies 1a-1c). Consequently, time donation intentions (Study 2) and actual monetary donations (Study 3) after a God (vs. religion) prime increase when people are presented an abstractly (vs. concretely) framed donation appeal. Similarly, people donate more money to distant (vs. close) donation targets, which are construed relatively abstractly (vs. concretely), when a religious speech activates predominantly God-specific (vs. religion-specific) thoughts (Study 4). These effects are mediated by "feeling right" under construal level fit (Study 3). Overall, this research significantly advances extant knowledge on religious cognition and past research on the link between religion and prosociality.

The purpose of this study was to identify differences between genetically undefined (GU) early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) patients and carriers of Parkin mutations on non-motor symptoms (NMSs). EOPD patients (N = 261) underwent targeted sequencing of Parkinson's disease (PD) related genes. Among them, 53 cases carried homozygous or compound heterozygous Parkin mutations (Parkin group) while 208 did not carry known causative PD mutations or risk factors of GBA or Parkin heterozygous mutations (GU group). NMSs were evaluated by face-to-face interviews, self-completed questionnaires and results on a neuropsychological battery. Linear regression and logistic regression models were applied to assess the predictors of NMSs. Parkin patients had younger ages of onset (AOO) (p < 0.001), longer disease durations (p < 0.001) and lower grades of Hoehn and Yarh (H&Y) (p = 0.007). Results on the neuropsychological battery showed a shorter time in Trail Making Test (TMT) (part B) in Parkin patients (p = 0.034) compared to GU patients. After adjusting for AOO, disease duration, H&Y, and levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD), there was a higher depression index on the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) (p = 0.013) and better performance (p = 0.038) on executive function in the Parkin group compared to the GU group. No significant differences were found for autonomic functions, sleep-wake problems or other domains of cognitive function. Our study showed that the Parkin mutation status might be a good predictor of symptoms of depression without an impact on executive function. While these findings need to be confirmed in larger cohorts, they identify a need to screen for depression. Graphical Abstract Flow chart of genetic tests.

PsyCoLaus: A Prospective Study of the Links between Mental Health and Cardiovascular Diseases 

The aim of the present study is to provide additional knowledge about the mediatory processes through which language contributes to the symptoms of mental illness. Although recent studies have provided insight about the relationship between language and the indicators of mental illness, the role of intervening variables in this connection has been ignored. The present investigation tested a structural equation model in which the need for the absolute truth about self and worry mediated the relationship of the gap between inner psychological experience and language with anxiety and depression. The results have provided support for the model and showed that the gap predicts both the need for absolute truth and worry which, in turn, predict the levels of anxiety and depression. The results have been discussed in the light of previous research, and implications for future research have also been considered.

The role of a properly balanced diet in the prevention and treatment of mental disorders has been suggested, while vegetables and fruits have a high content of nutrients that may be of importance in the case of depressive disorders. The aim of the study was to conduct a systematic review of the observational studies analyzing association between fruit and vegetable intake and mental health in adults. The search adhered to the guidelines of Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA), and the review was registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) database (CRD42019138148). A search for peer-reviewed observational studies published until June 2019 was performed in PubMed and Web of Science databases, followed by an additional manual search for publications conducted via analyzing the references of the found studies. With respect to the intake of fruit and/or vegetable, studies that assessed the intake of fruits and/or vegetables, or their processed products (e.g., juices), as a measure expressed in grams or as the number of portions were included. Those studies that assessed the general dietary patterns were not included in the present analysis. With respect to mental health, studies that assessed all the aspects of mental health in both healthy participants and subjects with physical health problems were included, but those conducted in groups of patients with intellectual disabilities, dementia, and eating disorders were excluded. To assess bias, the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) was applied. A total of 5911 studies were independently extracted by 2 researchers and verified if they met the inclusion criteria using a 2-stage procedure (based on the title, based on the abstract). After reviewing the full text, a total of 61 studies were selected. A narrative synthesis of the findings from the included studies was performed, which was structured around the type of outcome. The studies included mainly focused on depression and depressive symptoms, but also other characteristics ranging from general and mental well-being, quality of life, sleep quality, life satisfaction, flourishing, mood, self-efficacy, curiosity, creativity, optimism, self-esteem, stress, nervousness, or happiness, to anxiety, minor psychiatric disorders, distress, or attempted suicide, were analyzed. The most prominent results indicated that high total intake of fruits and vegetables, and some of their specific subgroups including berries, citrus, and green leafy vegetables, may promote higher levels of optimism and self-efficacy, as well as reduce the level of psychological distress, ambiguity, and cancer fatalism, and protect against depressive symptoms. However, it must be indicated that the studies included were conducted using various methodologies and in different populations, so their results were not always sufficiently comparable, which is a limitation. Taken together, it can be concluded that fruits and/or vegetables, and some of their specific subgroups, as well as processed fruits and vegetables, seems to have a positive influence on mental health, as stated in the vast majority of the included studies. Therefore, the general recommendation to consume at least 5 portions of fruit and vegetables a day may be beneficial also for mental health.

Although affective and semantic word properties are known to independently influence our sensorimotor system, less is known about their interaction. We investigated this issue applying a data-driven mixed-effects regression approach, evaluating the impact of lexical-semantic properties on electrophysiological parameters, namely facial muscles activity (left corrugator supercilii, zygomaticus major, levator labii superioris) and heartbeat, during word processing. 500 Italian words were acoustically presented to 20 native-speakers, while electrophysiological signals were continuously recorded. Stimuli varied for affective properties, namely valence (the degree of word positivity), arousal (the amount of emotional activation brought by the word), and semantic ones, namely concreteness. Results showed that the three variables interacted in predicting both heartbeat and muscular activity. Specifically, valence influenced activation for lower levels of arousal. This pattern was further modulated by concreteness: the lower the word concreteness, the larger affective-variable impact. Taken together, our results provide evidence for bodily responses during word comprehension. Crucially, such responses were found not only for voluntary muscles, but also for the heartbeat, providing evidence to the idea of a common emotional motor system. The higher impact of affective properties for abstract words supports proposals suggesting that emotions play a central role in the grounding of abstract concepts.

To estimate the prevalence of flatus-only and faecal incontinence, to describe their risk factors and to analyse the association between anal incontinence and psychological distress over the first year postpartum. Cohort study from pregnancy to 12 months postpartum. Two university hospital maternity wards in France. A total of 2002 pregnant women were recruited between 2003 and 2006. Data on anal incontinence were available for the 1632 women who comprise the sample for analysis. Women were enrolled during pregnancy. A postal questionnaire was sent at 4 and 12 months postpartum. Anal (flatus-only and faecal) incontinence was assessed at 4 months postpartum. Mental health was assessed at 4 and 12 months postpartum by the Edinburgh Postpartum Depression Scale (EPDS) and use of antidepressant drugs as well as by self-rated mental health. At 4 months postpartum, the prevalence for flatus-only incontinence was 14.4% and for faecal incontinence 1.7%; multivariate analysis, restricted to women reporting no anal incontinence before the index pregnancy, showed that continuing breastfeeding at 4 months was related to a higher risk of de novo postpartum anal incontinence (OR = 2.23). Women who reported anal incontinence at 4 months were more frequently depressed (EPDS ≥10 or antidepressant use) at 12 months postpartum: 36.0% of those with faecal incontinence were depressed, 23.3% of those with flatus-only incontinence and only 14.8% of the continent women. Postnatal faecal incontinence was rare but associated with poorer maternal mental health. Postnatal screening should be encouraged, and psychological support offered. Postnatal faecal incontinence was associated with depression; postnatal screening should be encouraged and psychological support offered.

Previous studies found conflicting results about whether hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is associated with depression or anxiety. To determine the relationship of HS with depression and anxiety. A systematic review was performed of published observational studies in MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, Global Resource for Eczema Trials (GREAT), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS), Cochrane, Scopus, and PsychInfo that analyzed depression or anxiety in HS. Two reviewers performed title/abstract review and data extraction. Meta-analysis was performed with random-effects weighting. Thirty-eight studies met inclusion criteria; 27 had sufficient data for meta-analysis. The prevalences of depression (26.5% vs 6.6%) and anxiety (18.1% vs 7.1%) were higher in persons with versus without HS. Patients with HS had higher odds of depression in 12 of 13 studies and pooled analysis (odds ratio, 2.54; 95% confidence interval, 2.15-3.01), and anxiety in 6 of 6 studies and pooled analysis (odds ratio, 2.00; 95% confidence interval, 1.66-2.42). Similar results were found in sensitivity analyses for different methods of HS diagnosis (physician diagnosed and chart review) and control groups (healthy and dermatologic control individuals). HS was associated with higher antidepressant and anxiolytic use and with suicidality, but not mean depression and anxiety scale scores. Individual-level data were unavailable. Patients with HS have higher odds of depression, anxiety, and suicidality.

Investigating the relationship between anticipatory pleasure deficits and risk features of mental disorders not only theoretically benefits the understanding of anhedonia, but could also facilitate early detection and intervention of mental disorders. Using network analysis, the present study examined the pattern of relationship between anticipatory pleasure and risk features of schizophrenia spectrum, depressive, anxiety, autism spectrum, and obsessive-compulsive disorders in a large sample of college students (n = 2152). It was found that interpersonal features of schizotypal personality traits and poor social skills of autistic traits showed strong correlation with low social anticipatory pleasure. Depressive symptoms severity was weakly associated with reduced abstract anticipatory pleasure, while obsessive-compulsive traits were weakly associated with high contextual anticipatory pleasure. No significant correlation was found between anxiety symptoms severity and anticipatory pleasure. Social anticipatory pleasure had the highest strength centrality among all anticipatory pleasure components, while interpersonal features of schizotypal personality traits had the highest strength centrality in the whole network. Our findings suggest that impaired anticipatory pleasure, especially social anticipatory pleasure, is a particular feature of schizotypal personality traits and autistic traits. Our findings may have implications for intervention in that the social component may be a target to improve anhedonia in individuals with schizotypal and autistic traits, while interpersonal features may be a key treatment target given that it was central to the relationship between anticipatory pleasure and risk features.

Previous research has distinguished between 

The grounding of concepts in the sensorimotor brain systems is controversially discussed. Grounded cognition models propose that concepts are represented in modality-specific sensorimotor, but also emotional and introspective brain areas depending on specific experiences during concept acquisition. Accumulating evidence suggests that concrete concepts are closely linked to modality-specific systems, whereas the mere existence of abstract concepts seems to contradict grounded cognition approaches. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we adopted a theory-driven approach frequently used for investigating concrete concepts to the domain of abstract concepts: We compared brain activation to abstract concepts with a known motor versus visual feature content as determined by a previous property listing study. Carefully matched motor (e.g., fitness) and visual (e.g., beauty) abstract words were presented to 24 participants along with pseudowords while performing a lexical decision task. Furthermore, participants performed two localizer tasks by actually moving their hands (motor localizer) and by looking at real pictures (visual localizer). Processing of motor abstract words specifically activated frontal and parietal motor areas, whereas processing of visual abstract words specifically elicited higher activity in temporo-occipital visual areas, albeit at a more lenient statistical threshold. According to inclusive masking analyses, this differential activity pattern to motor and visual abstract concepts overlapped with brain activations observed during hand movements (pre- and postcentral gyrus) and object perception (fusiform and lingual gyrus). Thus, consistent with the grounded cognition framework, our results suggest that, similar to concrete concepts, abstract concepts related to action and vision are grounded in modality-specific brain systems typically engaged in actual perception and action depending on their conceptual feature content.

Mental health issues among farmers are identified population health concerns. While one systematic review focused on suicide in farming populations in the United States, there have been no scoping studies examining mental health in farming communities worldwide. The objectives of this scoping review were to: provide a descriptive analysis of the literature pertaining to mental health outcomes in farming populations; describe the international scope of the research; and highlight published mental health services and interventions that have been evaluated. Following Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review framework, five major health and science platforms were used to identify studies examining mental health outcomes in farming populations, worldwide. Studies that met a priori inclusion criteria that were published prior to December 31, 2017 were included in this review. Data synthesis and descriptive statistics were conducted using STATA 15® software; proportions were calculated by country. The initial literature search yielded 9,906 records. After title and abstract screening, 676 articles were reviewed in-full. Of these, 341 met a priori inclusion criteria. Studies included were conducted between 1979 and 2017; the majority (265; 77.7%) were published between 2002-2017. The most frequently measured outcomes were stress (41.9%), suicide (33.1%), and depression (32.6%). Over 70% of studies that examined stress described using quantitative research methods, most predominantly, cross-sectional designs (42.7%). Approximately 64% of studies that measured suicide reported using a quantitative approach; the largest proportion of included suicide studies (33.6%) described using cohort designs. Approximately 84% of studies that measured depression described using quantitative approaches; sixty percent of these studies reported using a cross-sectional study design. Twenty included studies described a mental health service or intervention (5.9%). This scoping review provides a critical overview of the literature examining mental health outcomes in farming populations worldwide. Given the importance of farming and agriculture, this review can be used to ensure future research complements existing work, avoids unnecessary overlap, and begins to tackle the less-studied mental health outcomes amongst farmers. These results can guide researchers to identified gaps in research and services, leading to a more informed approach to future work, and ultimately, a more comprehensive understanding of mental health among farmers worldwide.

Rumination following an event, particularly in an abstract as opposed to concrete processing mode, is associated with increased intrusive memory frequency. However, the temporal trajectory of intrusive memories following abstract and concrete rumination remains unclear. We examined the association between processing mode and the frequency of intrusive memories over a 6-h time period following a negative mood induction. One hundred and sixteen community participants watched a video sequence designed to induce negative mood. Participants were then randomised into condition (abstract, concrete or distraction) and completed a verbally mediated task designed to induce the respective processing mode. Participants then completed hourly ratings of rumination and intrusive memories about the video after leaving the laboratory. Negative mood and intrusive memories were reliably induced. There were no differences in the frequency of intrusive memories between the abstract and concrete conditions. In contrast, participants in the distraction condition reported significantly more sensory intrusive memories than either ruminative condition. Three classes were found among participants following the video (intrusion free, rapid remitters, slow remitters). Condition was not predictive of class membership. It cannot be ruled out that the differences between rumination and distraction conditions were due to task differences. In contrast to previous findings, our results suggest that any form of rumination about an event (whether in an abstract or concrete mode) may temporarily result in fewer intrusive memories in comparison to distraction. Processing mode does not appear to predict particular trajectories of intrusions following a mood induction.

How and when infants and young children begin to develop emotion categories is not yet well understood. Research has largely treated the learning problem as one of identifying perceptual similarities among exemplars (typically posed, stereotyped facial configurations). However, recent meta-analyses and reviews converge to suggest that emotion categories are abstract, involving high-dimensional and situationally variable instances. In this paper we consult research on the development of abstract object categorization to guide hypotheses about how infants might learn abstract emotion categories because the two domains present infants with similar learning challenges. In particular, we consider how a developmental cascades framework offers opportunities to understand how and when young children develop emotion categories.

A healthy and productive health workforce is central to a well-functioning health system. However, health workers are at high risk of poor psychological wellbeing due to their particularly strenuous work demands. While mental health of health workers is a well-researched issue in high-income countries, research from low- and lower-middle-income countries (LLMIC) has begun to emerge only recently. The review aims to synthesize this body of research, specifically to assess the prevalence of mental health issues among health workers in LLMIC, to identify factors associated with good or poor mental health, and to highlight gaps in knowledge. We will perform a systematic search of the published English and French language literature (from inception onwards) in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PsycINFO. Eligible for inclusion are observational studies (e.g., cross-sectional, case-control, or cohort) and control arms of randomized controlled trials reporting investigations on the nature, prevalence, and factors associated with mental health or psychological wellbeing among formally trained health professionals and health associate professionals delivering health services in formal healthcare facilities in LLMIC. The primary outcomes will be burnout, depression, and general psychological wellbeing. Secondary outcomes include other specific mental health diagnoses, as well as general psychological stress, distress and/or trauma if work-related and explicitly framed as a mental health issue. Two authors will independently examine the studies against the eligibility criteria in the stages of title, abstract, and full-text study selection, as well as assess the risk of bias in included studies using standard checklists depending on study design. Disagreements will be resolved in discussion with the third author. Data will be extracted from included studies using a predefined and piloted coding framework. Given the anticipated heterogeneity of studies, we do not expect to be able to conduct meta-analysis and plan to summarize the extracted data in narrative form. The framework method will be used to organize narrative data by subthemes and explore patterns. In assessing the prevalence of mental health issues among healthcare professionals in LLMIC and identifying factors associated with positive or poor mental health, the review aims to synthesize all possible available information for policy makers and health system managers on a potentially highly important but not yet much-discussed issue and to highlight gaps in currently available knowledge. International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews PROSPERO (registration number CRD42019140036).

Medical education experts argue that grief support training for physicians would improve physician and patient and family wellness, and should therefore be mandatory. However, there is little evidence about the range of curricula interventions or the impact of grief training. The aim of this scoping review was to describe the current landscape of grief training worldwide in medical school, postgraduate residency and continuing professional development in the disciplines of pediatrics, family medicine and psychiatry. Using Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review principles, MEDLINE, EMBASE, ERIC, PsychInfo and Web of Science were searched by a librarian. Two levels of screening took place: a title and abstract review for articles that fit a predefined criteria and a full-text review of articles that met those criteria. Three investigators reviewed the articles and extracted data for analysis. To supplement the search, we also scanned the reference lists of included studies for possible inclusion. Thirty-seven articles published between 1979 and 2019 were analyzed. Most articles described short voluntary grief training workshops. At all training levels, the majority of these workshops focused on transmitting knowledge about the ethical and legal dimensions of death, dying and bereavement in medicine. The grief trainings described were characterized by the use of diverse pedagogical tools, including lectures, debriefing sessions, reflective writing exercises and simulation/role-play. Grief training was associated with increased self-assessed knowledge and expertise; however, few of the studies analyzed the impact of grief training on physician and patient and family wellness. Our synthesis of the literature indicates key gaps exist, specifically regarding the limited emphasis on improving physicians' communication skills around death and dying and the limited use of interactive and self-reflexive learning tools. Most trainings also had an overly narrow focus on bereavement grief, rather than a more broadly defined definition of loss.

In recent years, both fields of physics and psychology have made important scientific advances. The emergence of new instruments gave rise to a data-driven neuroscience allowing us to learn about the state of the brain supporting known mental functions and conversely. In parallel, the appearance of new mathematics allowed the development of computational models describing fundamental brain functions and implementing them in technological applications. While emphasizing the methodology of physics, the special issue aims to bring together these trends in both the experimental and theoretical sciences in order to explain some of the most basic mental processes such as perception, cognition, emotion, consciousness, and learning. In this editorial, we define unsolved problems for brain and psychological sciences, discuss possible means toward their respective solutions, and outline some collaborative initiatives aiming toward these goals. The following problems are defined in gradual order of difficulty: what are the universal properties of human behavior across conditions and cultures? What have each culture learned over historical times and why should specific elements of knowledge be accumulated over cultural evolution? Can computational psychiatry help predict, understand, and cure mental disorders? What is the function of art and cultural artifacts such as music, fiction, or poetry for the cognitive system? How to explain the relation between first-person subjective experience and third-person objective physiological data? What neural mechanisms operate on which mental content at the highest levels of organization of the hierarchical brain? How do abstract ideas emerge from sensory-motor contingencies and what are the conditions for the birth of a new concept? Could symmetry play a role in psychogenesis and support the emergence of new hierarchical layers in cognition? How can we start addressing the question of meaning scientifically, and what does it entail for the physical sciences?

Worry and rumination are forms of repetitive negative thinking (RNT) that are maintained by negative interpretations and a predominance of abstract, verbal thinking. Hence, facilitating more positive interpretations and imagery-based thinking in combination may reduce RNT. Study 1 administered interpretation training with and without enhanced imagery, and an active control condition (designed not to change interpretations), in individuals with high levels of RNT (worry and/or rumination). Combining interpretation training with sustained imagery resulted in the highest levels of positive interpretation bias using an offline test of interpretation bias (when individuals have time to reflect). Study 2 investigated whether imagery-enhanced interpretation training influences online interpretations when ambiguous information is first encountered, indexed by reaction times and amplitude of the N400 event-related potential, as well as enhances offline positive interpretations in high worriers. It also examined whether imagery-enhanced interpretation training reduces negative thought intrusions associated with worry. Both online (reaction time) and offline interpretations were more positive following imagery-enhanced interpretation training, and negative thoughts were reduced, compared to the active control. However, no differences emerged on neurophysiological markers during the online task. Hence, brief interpretation training encompassing sustained imagery modifies online and offline interpretations, but further training may be required to impact upon neurophysiological measures.

Youth often experience unique pathways into homelessness, such as family conflict, child abuse and neglect. Most research has focused on adult homeless populations, yet youth have specific needs that require adapted interventions. This review aims to synthesize evidence on interventions for youth and assess their impacts on health, social, and equity outcomes. We systematically searched Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, and other databases from inception until February 9, 2018 for systematic reviews and randomized controlled trials on youth interventions conducted in high income countries. We screened title and abstract and full text for inclusion, and data extraction were completed in duplicate, following the PRISMA-E (equity) review approach. Our search identified 11,936 records. Four systematic reviews and 18 articles on randomized controlled trials met the inclusion criteria. Many studies reported on interventions including individual and family therapies, skill-building, case management, and structural interventions. Cognitive behavioural therapy led to improvements in depression and substance use, and studies of three family-based therapies reported decreases in substance use. Housing first, a structural intervention, led to improvements in housing stability. Many interventions showed inconsistent results compared to services as usual or other interventions, but often led to improvements over time in both the intervention and comparison group. The equity analysis showed that equity variables were inconsistently measured, but there was data to suggest differential outcomes based upon gender and ethnicity. This review identified a variety of interventions for youth experiencing homelessness. Promising interventions include cognitive behavioural therapy for addressing depression, family-based therapy for substance use outcomes, and housing programs for housing stability. Youth pathways are often unique and thus prevention and treatment may benefit from a tailored and flexible approach.

Listening to music often evokes intense emotions [1, 2]. Recent research suggests that musical pleasure comes from positive reward prediction errors, which arise when what is heard proves to be better than expected [3]. Central to this view is the engagement of the nucleus accumbens-a brain region that processes reward expectations-to pleasurable music and surprising musical events [4-8]. However, expectancy violations along multiple musical dimensions (e.g., harmony and melody) have failed to implicate the nucleus accumbens [9-11], and it is unknown how music reward value is assigned [12]. Whether changes in musical expectancy elicit pleasure has thus remained elusive [11]. Here, we demonstrate that pleasure varies nonlinearly as a function of the listener's uncertainty when anticipating a musical event, and the surprise it evokes when it deviates from expectations. Taking Western tonal harmony as a model of musical syntax, we used a machine-learning model [13] to mathematically quantify the uncertainty and surprise of 80,000 chords in US Billboard pop songs. Behaviorally, we found that chords elicited high pleasure ratings when they deviated substantially from what the listener had expected (low uncertainty, high surprise) or, conversely, when they conformed to expectations in an uninformative context (high uncertainty, low surprise). Neurally, we found using fMRI that activity in the amygdala, hippocampus, and auditory cortex reflected this interaction, while the nucleus accumbens only reflected uncertainty. These findings challenge current neurocognitive models of music-evoked pleasure and highlight the synergistic interplay between prospective and retrospective states of expectation in the musical experience. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Can cultural representations be used to therapeutic effect in the treatment of mood disorders like depression and anxiety? This article develops a theoretical framework that outlines how this might be achieved by way of mid-level cultural metrics that allow otherwise heterogeneous forms of representation to be grouped together. Its prediction is that abstract representations-as measured by Shannon entropy-will impact positively on anxiety, where concrete representations will positively impact on depression. The background to the prediction comes from construal level theory, a branch of social psychology that deals with the effects of abstraction on psychological distance; the types of cultural representations analysed include image, narrative and film. With a view to evaluating the hypothesis, the article surveys the empirical literature in art therapy, creative bibliotherapy and cinema therapy.

Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is an intervention that has established efficacy in the prevention and treatment of depressive disorders. Previous systematic reviews have not evaluated the effectiveness of IPT on symptoms of stress, anxiety, depression, quality of life, relationship satisfaction/quality, social supports, and an improved psychological sense of well-being. There is limited data regarding factors that moderate and mediate the effectiveness of IPT including the timing of the intervention or the mode of delivery of IPT intervention. The objective of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, and acceptability of IPT interventions to treat perinatal psychological distress and to summarize the evidence on predictors, mediators, and moderators of IPT. We will include peer-reviewed studies that recruited perinatal women. The search strategy will involve the following databases: MEDLINE (Ovid), EMBASE (Ovid), PsycINFO (Ovid), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Ovid), CINAHL with Full Text (EBSCO), Social Work Abstracts (EBSCO), SocINDEX with Full Text (EBSCO), Academic Search Complete (EBSCO), Family & Society Studies Worldwide (EBSCO), Family Studies Abstracts (EBSCO), and Scopus. Study inclusion criteria include (1) randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental studies, and pre-post studies that evaluated the effectiveness of IPT; (2) qualitative studies that evaluated feasibility and acceptability of IPT; (3) study sample included and analyzed perinatal women; and (4) publication language was English. Using pilot-tested screening and data extraction forms, two reviewers will independently review studies in three steps: (1) abstract/title screening, (2) full-text screening of potentially accepted studies, and (3) data extraction of accepted studies. Disagreements will be resolved by a third reviewer. Studies will be aggregated for meta-synthesis and meta-analysis should the data allow for this. Two independent reviewers will grade methodological quality. Findings from this review will inform future development and implementation of IPT intervention research for perinatal women. Identifying key factors of successful IPT interventions will inform intervention design and adaptation of IPT interventions to increase the likelihood that perinatal women will engage in and benefit from IPT interventions. This review will also identify key considerations for increasing the effectiveness of IPT interventions during the perinatal period. PROSPERO CRD42019114292.

Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Bulimia Nervosa 

•Nucleotide binding oligomerization domain (Nod)-like receptors regulate cognition, anxiety and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation. •Nod-like receptors regulate central and peripheral serotonergic biology. •Nod-like receptors are important for maintenance of gastrointestinal physiology. •Intestinal epithelial cell expression of Nod1 receptors regulate behaviour. Gut-brain axis signalling is critical for maintaining health and homeostasis. Stressful life events can impact gut-brain signalling, leading to altered mood, cognition and intestinal dysfunction. In the present study, we identified nucleotide binding oligomerization domain (Nod)-like receptors (NLR), Nod1 and Nod2, as novel regulators for gut-brain signalling. NLR are innate immune pattern recognition receptors expressed in the gut and brain, and are important in the regulation of gastrointestinal physiology. We found that mice deficient in both Nod1 and Nod2 (NodDKO) demonstrate signs of stress-induced anxiety, cognitive impairment and depression in the context of a hyperactive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. These deficits were coupled with impairments in the serotonergic pathway in the brain, decreased hippocampal cell proliferation and immature neurons, as well as reduced neural activation. In addition, NodDKO mice had increased gastrointestinal permeability and altered serotonin signalling in the gut following exposure to acute stress. Administration of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine, abrogated behavioural impairments and restored serotonin signalling. We also identified that intestinal epithelial cell-specific deletion of Nod1 (VilCre

Previous studies have indicated that people with social anxiety disorder (SAD) often experience spontaneous, recurrent images (SRI). It was assumed that Koreans with interdependent self-views may contain more features related to social contexts in their self-images than those reported in Western cultures. In the present study, we aimed to explore the prevalence and content of SRIs in individuals with SAD in Korea. Furthermore, we investigated the relationship between features of SRIs and variables of SAD. Sixty-four individuals with SAD (27.00 ± 7.42 years, 64.1% female), diagnosed with SAD, completed self-report questionnaires related to social anxiety. Afterwards, a semi-structured interview was used to assess features and content of the individuals' SRI. Thirty (47%) of the participants reported experiencing SRIs in social situations. The content of the SRIs were classified under three themes: negative self-images, negative images of others, and abstract images. The distress level of SRIs was positively associated with social phobia scales (r = .385, p < .05) and physical anxiety symptoms (r = .478, p < .05). Frequency of SRIs was positively associated with avoidance scores (r = .402, p < .05). The results demonstrated differences in the prevalence and content of the SRIs between Western and non-Western cultures. Fewer individuals with SAD in Korea reported having SRIs, and the content of these SRIs involved people other than the self. Some features of SRIs were associated with variables of SAD.

Music ranks among the greatest human pleasures. It consistently engages the reward system, and converging evidence implies it exploits predictions to do so. Both prediction confirmations and errors are essential for understanding one's environment, and music offers many of each as it manipulates interacting patterns across multiple timescales. Learning models suggest that a balance of these outcomes (i.e., intermediate complexity) optimizes the reduction of uncertainty to rewarding and pleasurable effect. Yet evidence of a similar pattern in music is mixed, hampered by arbitrary measures of complexity. In the present studies, we applied a well-validated information-theoretic model of auditory expectation to systematically measure two key aspects of musical complexity: predictability (operationalized as information content [IC]), and uncertainty (entropy). In Study 1, we evaluated how these properties affect musical preferences in 43 male and female participants; in Study 2, we replicated Study 1 in an independent sample of 27 people and assessed the contribution of veridical predictability by presenting the same stimuli seven times. Both studies revealed significant quadratic effects of IC and entropy on liking that outperformed linear effects, indicating reliable preferences for music of intermediate complexity. An interaction between IC and entropy further suggested preferences for more predictability during more uncertain contexts, which would facilitate uncertainty reduction. Repeating stimuli decreased liking ratings but did not disrupt the preference for intermediate complexity. Together, these findings support long-hypothesized optimal zones of predictability and uncertainty in musical pleasure with formal modeling, relating the pleasure of music listening to the intrinsic reward of learning.

Emotional valence is known to influence word processing dependent upon concreteness. Whereas some studies point towards stronger effects of emotion on concrete words, others claim amplified emotion effects for abstract words. We investigated the interaction of emotion and concreteness by means of fMRI and EEG in a delayed lexical decision task. Behavioral data revealed a facilitating effect of high positive and negative valence on the correct processing of abstract, but not concrete words. EEG data yielded a particularly low amplitude response of the late positive component (LPC) following concrete neutral words. This presumably indicates enhanced allocation of processing resources to abstract and emotional words at late stages of word comprehension. In fMRI, interactions between concreteness and emotion were observed within the semantic processing network: the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and the left middle temporal gyrus (MTG). Higher positive or negative valence appears to facilitate semantic retrieval and selection of abstract words. Surprisingly, a reversal of this effect occurred for concrete words. This points towards enhanced semantic control for emotional concrete words compared to neutral concrete words. Our findings suggest fine-tuned integration of emotional valence and concreteness. Specifically, at late processing stages, semantic control mechanisms seem to integrate emotional cues depending on the previous progress of semantic retrieval.

The relationship between tickling, sensation, and laughter is complex. Tickling or its mere anticipation makes us laugh, but not when we self-tickle. We previously showed rat somatosensory cortex drives tickling-evoked vocalizations and now investigated self-tickle suppression and tickle anticipation. We recorded somatosensory cortex activity while tickling and touching rats and while rats touched themselves. Allo-touch and tickling evoked somatotopic cortical excitation and vocalizations. Self-touch induced wide-ranging inhibition and vocalization suppression. Self-touch also suppressed vocalizations and cortical responses evoked by allo-touch or cortical microstimulation. We suggest a global-inhibition model of self-tickle suppression, which operates without the classically assumed self versus other distinction. Consistent with this inhibition hypothesis, blocking cortical inhibition with gabazine abolished self-tickle suppression. We studied anticipation in a nose-poke-for-tickling paradigm. Although rats nose poked for tickling, they also showed escaping, freezing, and alarm calls. Such ambivalence ("Nervenkitzel") resembles tickle behaviors in children. We conclude that self-touch-induced GABAergic cortical inhibition prevents self-tickle, whereas anticipatory layer 5 activity drives anticipatory laughter. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Fatigue - a Common Symptom in General Practice 

The research was conducted at a UK teaching hospital and Haemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre (CCC) as part of a research programme investigating physiotherapy for acute bleed management. The aim of the study was to understand the perspectives of people with haemophilia (PWH) on validated outcome measures (OM) and whether these measures capture changes relevant to them whilst recovering from an acute bleed episode. Any person with haemophilia registered to the CCC who reported an acute bleed within the past 2 years was invited to participate. Semi-structured interviews or workshops (activity-focused discussions with small groups) were conducted with PWH who had received physiotherapy treatment in the previous two years. These were used to explore opinions of PWH of commonly used outcome measures. Eight male PWH participated, mean age 61 years, ranging between 39 and 71. Seven participants had severe haemophilia A and 1 had von Willebrands. Participants described numerical rating scales of pain as abstract and expressed a preference for verbal or visual descriptors. In relation to function, the men generally found haemophilia-specific OM to be more relevant. The EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ5D-5L) and Haemophilia and Exercise Project Test Questionnaire (HEP-Test-Q) were considered as good measures due to brevity and ability to capture relevant changes promptly. Participants in this study reported a preference for short OMs that allow them to reference their ability during the acute bleed episode in comparison with their normal function.

Unselected population-based BRCA testing provides the opportunity to apply genomics on a population-scale to maximise primary prevention for breast-and-ovarian cancer. We compare long-term outcomes of population-based and family-history (FH)/clinical-criteria-based BRCA testing on psychological health and quality of life. Randomised controlled trial (RCT) (ISRCTN73338115) GCaPPS, with two-arms: (i) population-screening (PS); (ii) FH/clinical-criteria-based testing. North London Ashkenazi-Jewish (AJ) population. AJ women/men. Population-based RCT (1:1). Participants were recruited through self-referral, following pre-test genetic counselling from the North London AJ population. AJ women/men >18 years old; exclusion-criteria: prior BRCA testing or first-degree relatives of BRCA-carriers. Genetic testing for three Jewish BRCA founder-mutations: 185delAG (c.68_69delAG), 5382insC (c.5266dupC) and 6174delT (c.5946delT), for (i) all participants in PS arm; (ii) those fulfilling FH/clinical criteria in FH arm. Linear mixed models and appropriate contrast tests were used to analyse the impact of BRCA testing on psychological and quality-of-life outcomes over 3 years. Validated questionnaires (HADS/MICRA/HAI/SF12) used to analyse psychological wellbeing/quality-of-life outcomes at baseline/1-year/2-year/3-year follow up. In all, 1034 individuals (691 women, 343 men) were randomised to PS (n = 530) or FH (n = 504) arms. There was a statistically significant decrease in anxiety (P = 0.046) and total anxiety-&-depression scores (P = 0.0.012) in the PS arm compared with the FH arm over 3 years. No significant difference was observed between the FH and PS arms for depression, health-anxiety, distress, uncertainty, quality-of-life or experience scores associated with BRCA testing. Contrast tests showed a decrease in anxiety (P = 0.018), health-anxiety (P < 0.0005) and quality-of-life (P = 0.004) scores in both PS and FH groups over time. Eighteen of 30 (60%) BRCA carriers identified did not fulfil clinical criteria for BRCA testing. Total BRCA prevalence was 2.9% (95% CI 1.97-4.12%), BRCA1 prevalence was 1.55% (95% CI 0.89-2.5%) and BRCA2 prevalence was 1.35% (95% CI 0.74-2.26%). Population-based AJ BRCA testing does not adversely affect long-term psychological wellbeing or quality-of-life, decreases anxiety and could identify up to 150% additional BRCA carriers. Population BRCA testing in Ashkenazi Jews reduces anxiety and does not adversely affect psychological health or quality of life.

Brain Ischemia/Reperfusion (I/R) injury leads to the failure of the microtubules function and neuronal death. Ischemic post-conditioning is defined as a series of rapid alternating interruptions of blood flow in the first seconds of reperfusion. In the present study, the caspase-3, Microtubule-Associated Protein-2 (MAP-2), Protein Kinase C α (PKCα), c-fos, and synaptophysin were evaluated in the hippocampus of focal I/R post-conditioning model in a time -dependent study in aged and young rats. Adult and aged rats were subjected to right MCAO for 30 min and post-conditioned (10 s) for 3 cycles. Sensory-motor tests were performed, and locomotion and anxiety-like behavior were evaluated. Molecular tests were done by detection kit, RT-PCR, and Western blotting techniques. Ninety-six hours after I/R post-conditioning, neurological signs, locomotion, anxiety-like behavior, and ischemic area were improved in young rats compared to 6 h after I/R post-conditioning (P < 0.001). Caspase-3 activity declined in the hippocampus and cortex of I/R post-conditioned young rats in 96 h after I/R post-conditioning compared with 6 h after I/R post-conditioning (P < 0.001). Also, MAP-2 mRNA, MAP-2 protein level, PKCα, c-fos and synaptophysin protein levels were enhanced during post-conditioning in young rats in 96 h after I/R post-conditioning compared with 6 h after induction of I/R post-conditioning. The results of the present study suggested that, early post-conditioning might be considered as a candidate for therapeutic methods against I/R in the adult animals not aged rats. Moreover, inhibition of cell death in post-conditioned ischemic rats was found to be regulated by some neuroprotective molecules as well as MAP-2 and c-fos in young rats. Graphical abstract Graphical abstract representing the post-conditioning (PC) treatment timeline in adult and old rats.

In this article, we integrate two constructionist approaches-the theory of constructed emotion and rational constructivism-to introduce several novel hypotheses for understanding emotional development. We first discuss the hypothesis that emotion categories are abstract and conceptual, whose instances share a goal-based function in a particular context but are highly variable in their affective, physical, and perceptual features. Next, we discuss the possibility that emotional development is the process of developing emotion concepts, and that emotion words may be a critical part of this process. We hypothesize that infants and children learn emotion categories the way they learn other abstract conceptual categories-by observing others use the same emotion word to label highly variable events. Finally, we hypothesize that emotional development can be understood as a concept construction problem: a child becomes capable of experiencing and perceiving emotion only when her brain develops the capacity to assemble ad hoc, situated emotion concepts for the purposes of guiding behavior and giving meaning to sensory inputs. Specifically, we offer a predictive processing account of emotional development. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

Research continues to assess potential boundary conditions for the age-related positivity effect in emotional information processing. Beyond the valence and arousal characteristics of a stimulus, other features may play a role in the manifestation of positivity effects. Differences between abstract and concrete words (i.e., the level of imageability, presence of affective content) may lead to differences in downstream processing outcomes. The present study examined whether additional features of word stimuli, beyond valence and arousal, could influence the emergence of age-related positivity in episodic memory. Fifty-two younger adults and 51 older adults completed a categorization task where they separated a series of positive, negative, and neutral words into "abstract" or "concrete" categories. A surprise recognition task followed after a short delay. Results revealed a three-way Age × Valence × Word Type interaction. No age differences in overall recognition was observed for concrete words, regardless of emotion; however, for abstract words, an Age × Valence interaction emerged whereby older adults recognized more positive than negative words, while valence differences were less pronounced among younger adults. Concrete words were remembered better than abstract words by both age groups, regardless of valence. Conversely, preferential processing appeared to occur for positive abstract words, especially for older adults. We contend that these results provide further evidence of the top-down and controlled nature of age-related positivity effects in episodic memory.

If someone unintentionally breaks the rules, do they break the rules? In the abstract, the answer is obviously "yes." But, surprisingly, when considering specific examples of unintentional, blameless rule-breaking, approximately half of people judge that no rule was broken. This effect, known as excuse validation, has previously been observed in American adults. Outstanding questions concern what causes excuse validation, and whether it is peculiar to American moral psychology or cross-culturally robust. The present paper studies the phenomenon cross-culturally, focusing on Korean and American adults, and proposes a new explanation of why people engage in excuse validation, in terms of competing forces in human norm-psychology. The principal findings are that Americans and Koreans engaged in excuse validation at similar levels, and older adults were more likely to engage in excuse validation. OPEN RESEARCH BADGES: This article has been awarded Open Materials and Open Data badges. All materials and data are publicly accessible via the Open Science Framework at https://osf.io/8juyc/. Learn more about the Open Practices badges from the Center for Open Science: https://osf.io/tvyxz/wiki .

Cannabidiol (CBD) and Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are the most represented phytocannabinoids in Cannabis sativa plants. However, CBD may present with a different activity compared with the psychotomimetic THC. Most typically, CBD is reported to be used in some medical conditions, including chronic pain. Conversely, the main aim of this systematic review is to assess and summarise the available body of evidence relating to both efficacy and safety of CBD as a treatment for psychiatric disorders, alone and/or in combination with other treatments. Eligible studies included randomized controlled trials (RCT) assessing the effect of CBD in a range of psychopathological conditions, such as substance use; psychosis, anxiety, mood disturbances, and other psychiatric (e.g., cognitive impairment; sleep; personality; eating; obsessive-compulsive; post-traumatic stress/PTSD; dissociative; and somatic) disorders. For data gathering purposes, the PRISMA guidelines were followed. The initial search strategy identified some n = 1301 papers; n = 190 studies were included after the abstract's screening and n = 27 articles met the inclusion criteria. There is currently limited evidence regarding the safety and efficacy of CBD for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. However, available trials reported potential therapeutic effects for specific psychopathological conditions, such as substance use disorders, chronic psychosis, and anxiety. Further large-scale RCTs are required to better evaluate the efficacy of CBD in both acute and chronic illnesses, special categories, as well as to exclude any possible abuse liability.

Effect of light therapy on the night sleep of children with sleep problems 

The anterior temporal lobe (ATL) is engaged in various types of semantic dimensions. One consistently reported dimension is social information, with abstract words describing social behaviors inducing stronger activations in the ATL than nonsocial words. One potential factor that has been systematically confounded in this finding is emotional valence, given that abstract social words tend to be associated with emotional feelings. We investigated which factors drove the ATL sensitivity using a 2 (social/nonsocial) × 2 (valenced/neutral) factorial design in an fMRI study with relatively high spatial resolutions. We found that sociality and valence were processed in different ATL regions without significant interactions: The social effect was found in the left anterior superior temporal sulcus (aSTS), whereas the valence effect activated small clusters in the bilateral temporal poles (TP). In the left ATL, the social- and valence-related clusters were distinct from another superior ATL area that exhibited a general "abstractness" effect with little modulation of sociality or valence. These subregions exhibited distinct whole-brain functional connectivity patterns during the resting state, with the social cluster functionally connected to the default mode network, the valence cluster connected to the adjacent temporal regions and amygdala, and the abstractness cluster connected to a distributed network including a set of language-related regions. These results of activation profiles and connectivity patterns together indicate that the way in which the left ATL supports semantic processing is highly fine-grained, with the neural substrate for social semantic effects dissociated from those for emotional valence and abstractness.

Behavioral lifestyle interventions to lower body mass index (BMI; kg/m2) are the standard approach for preventing adolescent-onset type 2 diabetes (T2D). Unfortunately, existing programs have had limited long-term success of lessening insulin resistance, the key physiological risk indicator for T2D. Underlying psychosocial factors, particularly depressive symptoms, have been related to insulin resistance, independent of BMI or body fat. Preliminary evidence indicates that mindfulness-based programs show promise for intervening with depression and T2D; yet, this approach is novel and data in adolescents are scarce. The objectives of this study were (1) to evaluate the benefits, and potential underlying mechanisms, of a mindfulness-based intervention in adolescents at-risk for T2D with depressive symptoms and (2) to consider clinical implementation with this specific, psychologically, and medically at-risk adolescent population. The research team conducted a case study report. The setting was an outpatient therapy clinic and research laboratory at a university. The participant was a 16-y-old female with elevated depressive symptoms, obesity, and insulin resistance, and a family history of T2D. The intervention was a 6-wk mindfulness-based group program. The key outcomes were patterns of change in trait mindfulness, depression, and insulin resistance in the course of a 1-y follow-up. Secondary outcomes were patterns of change in reported-overeating patterns and cortisol awakening response. Compared with her scores at baseline, the participant displayed a pattern of increased trait mindfulness, decreased depressive symptoms, and lessening of insulin resistance immediately following the group program and at 1 y. BMI and body fat were stable. There was a remission in reported-overeating and a pattern of declining cortisol awakening response 1 y later. Participant feedback on the intervention was generally positive but also provided potential modifications to strengthen acceptability and effectiveness. The current case results suggest that teaching mindfulness skills to adolescent girls at risk for T2D with depressive symptoms may offer distinctive advantages for treating depression and T2D risk. Clinical implications for increasing the success of implementing mindfulness-based programs in this population include a focus on promotion of social connectedness within the group, implementation of strategies to increase adherence to home practice activities, and the use of facilitation techniques to promote concrete understanding of abstract mindfulness concepts. Future, adequately powered clinical trial data are required to test therapeutic mechanisms and recommended adaptations.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Caregivers of children with disabilities are at increased risk of experiencing interpersonal violence and its consequences; however, there is limited research targeting this population. This problem is understudied in Sub-Saharan Africa. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Study examines intimate partner violence and depression among men and women caregivers of children with disabilities. Study findings showed that while a higher proportion of women caregivers of children with disabilities than men reported experiencing intimate partner violence and were at increased risk depression, the differences were not statistically significant. Participants reporting any form of violence (i.e. psychological aggression or physical assault) were at increased risk for depression, with those experiencing a combination of physical assault and psychological aggression having the highest risk for depression. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Professionals working families of individuals with disabilities should be cognizant of the added stress and comorbid factors associated with caring for a child with a disability. Future research should examine whether there is a causal relationship between intimate partner violence and depression among caregivers of children with disabilities and compare this relationship with the general population. ABSTRACT: Introduction Mental health correlates of intimate partner violence (IPV) victimization are well documented. However, caregivers of children with disabilities (CCWDs) are underrepresented in empirical investigations and may have an increased risk of experiencing IPV and its consequences. This is particularly important in Sub-Saharan Africa where this problem is understudied. Method The present study estimated the prevalence of IPV victimization and examined the association between IPV and depression in a sample of CCWDs living in Nairobi, Kenya. Results Nearly half (49.8%) of the participants experienced some form of IPV and more than half (51.8%) were at risk of depression. Participants reporting psychological and physical violence were 1.76 and 4.81 times more likely to be at risk for depression, respectively. Those experiencing a combination of physical and psychological violence were 4.85 times more likely to be at risk for depression. Discussion Both men and women CCWDs are at an increased risk for IPV and depression. Social-cultural factors are also important in the prediction of depression risk and should be taken into account when working with CCWDs. Implications Mental health professionals should be cognizant of the added stress of being a CCWD, and the link between CCWDs and comorbid mental health outcomes.

Mindfulness involves paying attention to the present moment and accepting any thoughts or feelings that might arise without judgment. Mindfulness can influence a number of outcomes. Currently, we are interested if it influences people's level of mental construal. Two central dimensions of mindfulness (focusing on the present, and Openness to Experience) can lead to diverging predictions. While focusing on the present may produce a concrete construal level, openness to experience may facilitate an abstract construal level instead. We conducted 2 experiments to test the effect of a brief mindfulness induction on construal level. Mindfulness prompted participants to think more abstractly (Experiment 1), which was mediated by Openness to Experience (Experiment 2). Thus, mindfulness may prompt how people process information more broadly. We situate our research in the broader literature on mindfulness and reconcile our findings with previous work. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

Despite the increasing interest in the plasticity of aesthetic appreciation, we know comparatively little about the role of individuals' cultural (e.g. the appreciators' expertise) and of social emotional-cognitive (e.g. the social influence of people perceived as warm or competent) variables in modulating the appreciation process. In two experiments we investigated 1) whether people with different art-expertise are influenced differently by contextual (i.e. stimuli primed as art) and social (i.e. stimuli rated as beautiful by art-critics) information and 2) whether acknowledging the judgment of a person perceived as warm or as competent has a different influence on individuals' aesthetic appreciation of art works. Warmth and competence are two social dimensions of fundamental importance for categorizing others as in-group or out-group (Fiske, Cuddy, Glick, & Xu, 2002). We found that insinuating that the observed works were pieces of art, highly appreciated by art critics, lead expert participants to judge the stimuli as more beautiful in comparison to when the very same stimuli were not preceded by any manipulation. Moreover, we found that both art-experts and non-experts rated the stimuli as more beautiful when they believed it to be highly appreciated by people perceived as warm vs people perceived as competent. These results provide novel information on the plasticity of aesthetics and pave the way to understanding how tastes and preferences in the domain of aesthetics can be influenced.

Despite a wealth of empirical exploration on neutralization theory, several aspects of the theory remain underexplored. For instance, one task of neutralization research is to investigate whether and how neutralizations vary with offender characteristics. A second underexplored area is whether the neutralizations offenders present when directly asked about feelings of guilt are similar or dissimilar to those they have incorporated into their narrative identities described during interviews. A third underexplored issue is whether offenders that exhibit little guilt for committing mala prohibita crimes use neutralizations in a similar manner as those who do not express guilt for committing mala in se crimes. The present study examines these questions by drawing from data collected from interviews with 33 active drug sellers from St. Louis, Missouri, USA and 30 active drug sellers from Atlanta, Georgia, USA. We find that these offenders' neutralizations vary by drug type and by differential access to resources. We also find that, in addition to the neutralizations they give when asked about guilt, these offenders also preemptively neutralize feelings of guilt by constructing identities counter to bad "drug dealers" throughout their storied identities. We conclude by suggesting that neutralizations vary by offender characteristics due to the differing background expectancies of offenders' social groups. We also suggest that neutralizing the repercussions of immoral actions is not always a static, monothematic technique. It is instead an active, complex, and interactional process that occurs as persons make sense of who they are and what they are doing. Finally, we argue that studies of neutralization theory relying on direct, standardized questions or the presentation of abstract vignettes may fail to capture a sizable part of the neutralization process among offenders.

Schizophrenia is a devastating brain disorder that disturbs sensory perception, motor action, and abstract thought. Its clinical phenotype implies dysfunction of various mental domains, which has motivated a series of theories regarding the underlying pathophysiology. Aiming at a predictive benchmark of a catalog of cognitive functions, we developed a data-driven machine-learning strategy and provide a proof of principle in a multisite clinical dataset (n = 324). Existing neuroscientific knowledge on diverse cognitive domains was first condensed into neurotopographical maps. We then examined how the ensuing meta-analytic cognitive priors can distinguish patients and controls using brain morphology and intrinsic functional connectivity. Some affected cognitive domains supported well-studied directions of research on auditory evaluation and social cognition. However, rarely suspected cognitive domains also emerged as disease relevant, including self-oriented processing of bodily sensations in gustation and pain. Such algorithmic charting of the cognitive landscape can be used to make targeted recommendations for future mental health research.

Depression and anxiety are two of the leading causes of disease burden in low-to-middle income coutnries. The World Health Organisation has engaged in a programme of scaling-up mental health services, but significant challenges remain. Improving mental health literacy in children and young people, a core part of recent, global health strategies has the potential to address some of these challenges. The study aims to co-develop and feasibility test, a culturally-appropriate toolkit to promote depression and anxiety focused mental health literacy and self-management skills in Indonesia, for children aged 11-15 years. A mixed methods study comprising four phases. Through a systematic review of existing evidence, phase 1 will review approaches to improve mental health literacy and self-management in South East Asia and critically review current evidence regarding intervention effect. Phase 2 will explore stakeholders' views on depression, anxiety and mental health more broadly and identify priorities for the intervention through the use of semi-structured interviews and/or focus groups with policy makers, clinicians, teachers, adolescent service users, carers and young people aged 11-15. Phase 3 will comprise iterative workshops with local stakeholders to present our findings and co-produce a testable, culturally appropriate toolkit to promote mental health literacy and depression/anxiety focused self-management in 11-15 year olds in Java, Indonesia. Phase 4 comprises feasibility evaluation of our developed intervention via nine in-depth case studies (Jakarta, Bogor and Magelang). We will examine the impact, acceptability and feasibility of our prototype intervention and produce evidence-based guidelines for wider implementation. Tools to support mental health literacy and self-management are a low cost way in which mental health services in LMICs can attempt to address the burden of anxiety and depression amongst children and young people. However, this is an underexplored area in Indonesia. Working closely with local stakeholders, this study will design and undertake feasibility evaluation of co-produced mental health literacy and anxiety and depression focussed interactive self-management tools. This abstract has also been published on the funders website (UK Research and Innovation. Improving Mental Health Literacy Among Young People aged 12-15 years in Indonesia 2019).

Physiological and psychological sequelae are frequent after a cancer diagnosis and also on the long term. Screening could help detect psychological distress early and thus enable timely provision of adequate treatment. The emotion thermometer (ET) is a validated screening tool including five dimensions (distress, anxiety, depression, anger, and need-for-help). Reviewing the literature, we aimed to describe (a) the validity and (b) the application of the ET. Six databases were systematically searched for studies using the ET in individuals diagnosed with cancer. Included studies were critically appraised for methodological quality. ET validity and application were narratively synthesized. We identified 580 records eligible for title-abstract screening. Seventeen studies based on 13 different populations were included. Validation studies (5 of 17) concluded that the ET is sensitive to distress detection, delivering prompt and accurate results with no negative impact on clinic visit time. Furthermore, its use is accepted in patients and clinicians. The remaining 12 exploratory studies applied the ET for screening purposes (3 of 12), as outcome measure (6 of 12), or as predictor variable measure (3 of 12). Most studies were conducted in Europe (11 of 17), and 7 of the 12 exploratory studies used the recommended cutoff (greater than or equal to 4). Study populations were mostly female (9 of 13) with a mean age greater than 50 years (12 of 13) at study. Publications on distress screening with the ET are scarce, especially among young populations. However, research and studies' recommendations support the ET's utility as a valid and feasible tool for distress screening including anxiety and depression and suggest its implementation as part of a structured program for early screening in cancer care.

People express emotion using their voice, face and movement, as well as through abstract forms as in art, architecture and music. The structure of these expressions often seems intuitively linked to its meaning: romantic poetry is written in flowery curlicues, while the logos of death metal bands use spiky script. Here, we show that these associations are universally understood because they are signalled using a multi-sensory code for emotional arousal. Specifically, variation in the central tendency of the frequency spectrum of a stimulus-its spectral centroid-is used by signal senders to express emotional arousal, and by signal receivers to make emotional arousal judgements. We show that this code is used across sounds, shapes, speech and human body movements, providing a strong multi-sensory signal that can be used to efficiently estimate an agent's level of emotional arousal.

Are people biologically prepared for the rapid detection of threat posed by an angry facial expression, even when it is conveyed in the form of a schematic line drawing? Based on visual search times, the current literature would suggest that the answer is yes. But are there low-level explanations for this effect? Here, we present visual search results for schematic faces using current best practice, based on a concentric search array and set size manipulation. Using this approach, we replicate the classic search advantage for angry over happy faces. However, we also report a comparable effect when abstract plus- and square-shaped stimuli-derived from the angry and happy schematic faces respectively-are used within the same paradigm. We then go on to demonstrate that, while reduced, the effect remains after removal of the circular surround, bringing us closer to the source of the effect. We explore the possibility that the source of this search asymmetry could be the iso-feature suppression and collinear facilitation model proposed in Li's (1999a, 1999b, and 2002) bottom-up model of saliency. Simulations with this model using the abstract stimuli align with the corresponding behavioral results (i.e., the plus shape was found to be more salient than the square). Given the deliberate similarities between these abstract shapes and the respective face stimuli, we propose that the underlying cause for the asymmetries typically found using schematic faces, may be more related to early visual processing of line orientation than threat detection.

Neuroinflammation plays an early and prominent role in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tumor necrosis factor-α-induced protein 8-like 2 (TIPE2) has been identified as a negative regulator of innate and adaptive immunity. However, whether TIPE2 affects cognitive functions in AD-like mouse models remains unknown. In this study, we compared the gene and protein expressions of TIPE2 between the APP/PS1 mice and the age-matched wild type (WT) mice at different stages of development using western blot and RT-qPCR. The hippocampal expression of the TIPE2 mRNA and protein in APP/PS1 mice was higher than that of the WT mice starting from 6 months to 10 months. However, the difference of the TIPE2 expression between the APP/PS1 mice and the WT mice declined in a time-dependent manner. The spatial learning and memory deficit from the 8-month-old APP/PS1 mice was observed in the Y-maze test and fear conditioning task. Interestingly, overexpression of TIPE2 by intra-hippocampal injection of AAV-TIPE2 into APP/PS1 mice resulted in an improvement of learning and memory and reduced expression of inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β, and increased expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-10 and Arg-1. Taken together, our findings show that the TIPE2 expression level was negatively correlated with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and overexpression of TIPE2 attenuates cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice, suggesting TIPE2 is a potential target for pharmacological intervention and improvement of cognitive deficits. Graphical Abstract .

The purpose of this systematic literature review is to describe the interventions for bereaved parents, evaluate intervention effectiveness through study methodology rigor, replicability, and theoretical foundations. We searched MEDLINE via PubMed (1966-2018), CINAHL (1937-present), PsycINFO (1887-present), and Embase (1947-present) using various search words and MeSH terms related to the study purpose. A blinded screening of title/abstract was performed, with conflicting inclusion decisions resolved through group discussions. Matrices for remaining articles were created and discussed among the team. The levels of evidence of the 9 records were rated from very low to high based on the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation guidelines. Our initial pool included 1025 articles. After the screening of titles/abstracts, 63 articles were retained for full-text reviews. Evaluated based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria, 9 records met the review criteria. Of the 9 records, 1 was graded as very low, 3 low, and 5 low to moderate. The interventions for bereaved parents varied from using single-model interventions such as expressive arts therapy and telephone support to multimodal interventions that combined resources (ie, peer support, resource packets, and health-care support). Only 1 study explicitly illustrated how its bereavement intervention was designed based on the proposed theoretical model. This review highlights the need for individualized, well-tested, and effective bereavement care interventions to support bereaved parents. In summary, the state of the science on interventions for bereaved parents is poor and much work needs to be done to effectively address the needs of bereaved parents, including both their physical and emotional health needs.

HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) have been linked to dysregulation of glutamate metabolism in the central nervous system (CNS) culminating in elevated extracellular glutamate and disrupted glutamatergic neurotransmission. Increased glutamate synthesis via upregulation of glutaminase (GLS) activity in brain immune cells has been identified as one potential source of excess glutamate in HAND. However, direct evidence for this hypothesis in an animal model is lacking, and the viability of GLS as a drug target has not been explored. In this brief report, we demonstrate that GLS inhibition with the glutamine analogue 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine (DON) can reverse cognitive impairment in the EcoHIV-infected mouse model of HAND. However, due to peripheral toxicity DON is not amenable to clinical use in a chronic disease such as HAND. We thus tested JHU083, a novel, brain penetrant DON prodrug predicted to exhibit improved tolerability. Systemic administration of JHU083 reversed cognitive impairment in EcoHIV-infected mice similarly to DON, and simultaneously normalized EcoHIV-induced increases in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glutamate and GLS activity in microglia-enriched brain CD11b + cells without observed toxicity. These studies support the mechanistic involvement of elevated microglial GLS activity in HAND pathogenesis, and identify JHU083 as a potential treatment option. Graphical Abstract Please provide Graphical Abstract caption.Glutamine Antagonist JHU083 Normalizes Aberrant Glutamate Production and Cognitive Deficits in the EcoHIV Murine Model of HIV-Associated Neurocognitive Disorders .

The capacity to understand another person's emotions, intentions, beliefs and personality traits, based on observed or communicated behaviors, is termed social cognition. During the last decade, social neuroscience has made great progress in understanding the neural correlates of social cognition. However, because the cerebellum is traditionally viewed as only involved in motor processing, the contribution of this major part of the brain in social processing has been largely ignored and its specific role in social cognition remains unclear. Nevertheless, recent meta-analyses have made its crucial contribution to social cognition evident. This raises the question: What is the exact function of the cerebellum in social cognition? We hypothesize that the cerebellum builds internal action models of our social inter-actions to predict how other people's actions will be executed, what our most likely responses are to these actions, so that we can automatize our interactions and instantly detect disruptions in these action sequences. This mechanism likely allows to better anticipate action sequences during social interactions in an automatic and intuitive way and to fine-tune these anticipations, making it easier to understand behaviors and to detect violations. This hypothesis has major implications in neurological disorders affecting the cerebellum such as autism, with detrimental effects on social functionality, especially on more complex and abstract social cognitive processes. Because the fundamental anatomical organization of the cerebellum is identical in many species (cerebellar microcomplexes), this hypothesis could have major impacts to elucidate social interactions in social animals.

No Abstract Available.

Using a metabolomic approach, we have found that stress can induce oxidative damage by disturbing the creatine/phosphocreatine shuttle system and purinergic pathway, leading to an excessive membrane breakdown. To further validate our findings and to monitor the biological impact of stress in research of clinical psychiatry, a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed to simultaneously determine a panel of biomarkers comprising choline, creatine, purinergic metabolites, neurosteroids, lysophosphatidylcholines, and phosphatidylethanolamines in human plasma. After optimization of the extraction protocol, all the 15 analytes plus 4 internal standards with distinct polarities were extracted into an organic phase using methyl tert-butyl ether/methanol (1:1, v/v). A reversed-phase C8 column under gradient elution consisting of aqueous phase A of 5 mM ammonium acetate buffer solution containing 0.1% formic acid and organic phase B of acetonitrile/2-propanol (3:7, v/v) was utilized for separation. Four sequential periods under positive or negative ion mode were combined for the determination of analytes with specific multiple reaction monitoring transitions. For all analytes, this method exhibited good linearity with coefficients of determination (R

Response inhibition negatively impacts the emotional and motivational significance of associated stimuli. Current accounts question whether this stimulus devaluation effect occurs immediately via negative affect elicited by inhibition, or only occurs later via a misattribution of decreased fluency as unpleasantness in the context of an explicit affective-evaluation task. Using facial electromyography, we recorded indirect physiological markers of affective response during a response-inhibition (Go/No-go) task to test opposing predictions arising from the immediate-affect and delayed-misattribution hypotheses. Engagement of the corrugator supercilli-a muscle closely associated with negative affect-was greater during periods when response inhibition was applied (No-go trials) than when not applied (Go trials). Moreover, corrugator engagement during response-inhibition predicted the magnitude of stimulus devaluation measured behaviorally in subsequent subjective ratings (How cheerful?), with greater engagement during No-go trials that contained abstract-art stimuli later rated negatively than during trials that contained items later rated positively. These results support the immediate-affect hypothesis and converge with prior neuroimaging evidence to suggest that the negative impact of inhibition promptly alters the coding of stimulus value. In contrast, none of the delayed-misattribution based predictions were confirmed.

This study examined two facets of emotion development: emotion word comprehension (knowing the meaning of emotion words such as "anger" or "excitement") and emotion concept abstraction (representing emotions in terms of internal psychological states that generalize across situations). Using a novel emotion vocabulary assessment, we captured how a cross-sectional sample of participants aged 4-25 (

With improving survival from colorectal cancer, there is a growing population of patients undergoing surveillance. National accreditation organizations have increasingly endorsed formal survivorship care planning. To effectively design patient-centered survivorship programs, an understanding of the prevalence of unmet psychosocial and symptomatic needs is required. The aim of this study is to understand the breadth of unmet needs among survivors of colorectal cancer. This is a cross-sectional survey of patients undergoing surveillance after curative-intent therapy for colorectal cancer. This study was conducted June 2017 to January 2018 at an academic cancer center. There were 99 patients (58 with colon cancer, 41 with rectal cancer). We measured patient-reported unmet needs by using a modification of the Cancer Survivor Unmet Needs instrument, within domains of emotional (stress, concerns about recurrence), relationship (fertility, interpersonal), logistical (need for accessible parking, case management), financial, treatment-related (neuropathy, bowel function), and surveillance-related needs. The mean (±SD) age was 58 (±12), and the time from diagnosis was 34 (±18) months. Overall, 74% of patients reported at least one unmet need, 49% reported emotional needs, 24% relationship needs, 24% financial needs, 25% logistical needs, and 33% surveillance needs. Thirty-six (62%) patients with colon cancer and 37 (90%) patients with rectal cancer reported at least one ongoing problem (p = 0.002). Thirty-five (82%) patients with rectal cancer reported an unmet treatment-related need in comparison with 23 (40%) patients with colon cancer (p < 0.001). The median (interquartile range) number of ongoing needs were 1 (0-5) in patients with colon cancer and 4 (2-8) in patients with rectal cancer (p = 0.007). This study was limited by its small sample size and lack of generalizability, given the tertiary care setting. The majority of colorectal cancer survivors reported unmet needs years after completion of curative-intent therapy. Patients with rectal cancer were significantly more likely to have unmet needs and may benefit from additional care during survivorship. Colorectal cancer survivorship programs should incorporate psychosocial and symptomatic care in addition to cancer surveillance. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A885.

Hope has been linked to positive health outcomes in the literature. Hope is abstract, multidimensional, future oriented, and occurs cognitively making it difficult to assess in children. Most of the research on hope has been conducted with adults and adolescents. Therefore, it is essential to analyze the concept of hope in children to provide nurses with tools to identify hope behaviors in children. The aim of this qualitative descriptive study was to describe hope behaviors in children from a nursing student perspective. Data were gathered from three focus groups (N = 19) of nursing students enrolled in a pediatric clinical rotation using a semistructured interview technique. Three themes of hope behaviors emerged from the three focus groups and were (a) future oriented, (b) goal oriented-getting up and doing things, and (c) pathways thinking processes-getting from point A to point B. Health care providers should consider hope behavioral cues, which can warrant interventions to increase hope in their young patients. Current findings demonstrate the need for the development of hope interventions that involve younger patients, thereby making their effects more sustainable across the lifespan.

During intertemporal decisions, the value of future rewards decreases as a function of the delay of its receipt (temporal discounting, TD). Since high discount rates have been associated with a series of problematic behaviours and clinical conditions, current research has focused on possible modulators of TD. Specifically, a reduction of individual discount rates has been shown during episodic future thinking (EFT), wherein time intervals are anchored to personal future events. However, it is not entirely clear whether this effect is mediated by a change in the representation of future events (i.e., from abstract to concrete) or by a positive-emotion modulation. Here, we investigated this issue by manipulating the valence of the EFT (i.e., using negative, neutral and positive episodic tags), and by collecting explicit and implicit measures of behaviour. The results showed a significant reduction of TD in all the three emotional conditions compared to the baseline, with differences among them, thus suggesting the existence of a cumulative effect of the concreteness and affective components of the EFT. The analyses of implicit measures additionally revealed that this effect was mediated by a simultaneous increase/decrease of attraction toward the delayed/immediate alternative. Finally, these effects appeared to be modulated by participants' baseline discounting preferences. These findings provide important insights on clinical applications in reward-related disorders.

Etiology, Diagnosis, and Management of Female Bladder Outlet Obstruction 

Striving to attain personal goals is important for maintaining well-being. Previous research indicates that repetitive thoughts can influence the affect and cognition associated with personal goal strivings. Repetitive thought in the concrete-experiential processing mode improves affect and cognition after a negative event more than does repetitive thought in the abstract-analytic processing mode. We extend this prior work by examining whether repetitive thought directly influences the maintenance of personal goal strivings through a longitudinal survey. In Study 1, we examined the daily maintenance effect of repetitive thought on personal goal strivings using a multilevel analysis of 29 participants who reported their thoughts and goal strivings daily for one week. In Study 2, participants (N = 131) reported their thoughts and goal strivings over 10 weeks, and we examined the maintenance effect of repetitive thought on personal goal strivings every two weeks. Highly repetitive thought in the abstract-analytic processing mode decreased the maintenance of short-term personal goal strivings in individuals with difficult goals. However, highly repetitive thought in the concrete-experiential processing mode increased the maintenance of long-term personal goal strivings in individuals with difficult goals. The study participants were university students; therefore, we cannot generalize the results to clinical populations or other age groups. Interventions that increase repetitive thought in the concrete-experiential processing mode may be effective in facilitating long-term goal strivings in individuals attempting to overcome difficult situations and achieve important personal goals.

Blended cognitive behaviour therapy (bCBT) is an effective treatment for fear of cancer recurrence (FCR) in curatively-treated breast, colorectal and prostate cancer survivors with high FCR. However, long-term outcomes are unknown. This study investigated the long-term efficacy and cost-effectiveness of bCBT compared with care as usual (CAU). Eighty-eight cancer survivors with high FCR (Cancer Worry Scale ≥14) were randomly assigned to bCBT (n = 45) or CAU (n = 43). Data were collected at baseline and at three, nine and fifteen months from baseline and analysed by modified intention-to-treat. Efficacy was investigated with linear mixed-effects models. Cost-effectiveness was investigated from a societal perspective by comparing costs with quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Participants who received bCBT reported significantly lower FCR compared with CAU (mean difference of - 1.787 [95% CI -3.251 to - 0.323, p = 0.017] at 15 months follow-up), and proportionally greater self-rated and clinically significant improvement at each follow-up measurement. Total QALYs were non-significantly different between conditions when adjusted for utility score baseline differences (0.984 compared to 0.957, p = 0.385), while total costs were €631 lower (95% CI -1737 to 2794, p = 0.587). Intervention costs of bCBT were €466. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio amounted to an additional €2049 per QALY gained, with a 62% probability that bCBT is cost-effective at a willingness to pay (WTP) threshold of €20,000 per QALY. Results were confirmed in sensitivity analyses. bCBT for cancer survivors with FCR is clinically and statistically more effective than CAU on the long-term. In addition, bCBT is a relatively inexpensive intervention with similar costs and QALYs as CAU. The RCT was registered in the Dutch National Trial Register ( NTR4423 ) on 12-Feb-2014. This abstract was previously presented at the International Psycho-Oncology Society conference of 2018 and published online. (Psycho-oncology, 27(S3):8-55; 2018).

People's emotional experiences depend not only on what actually happened, but also on what they thought would happen. However, these expectations about future outcomes are not always communicated explicitly. Thus, the ability to infer others' expectations in context and understand how these expectations influence others' emotions is an important aspect of our social intelligence. Prior work suggests that an abstract understanding of how expectations modulate emotional responses may not emerge until 7 to 8 years of age. Using a novel paradigm that capitalizes on intuitive physics to generate contextually plausible expectations, we present evidence for expectation-based emotion inference in preschool-aged children. Given two bowlers who experienced identical final outcomes (hitting 3 of 6 pins), we varied the trajectory of their balls such that one would initially expect to hit all pins (high-expectation), while the other would expect to hit none (low-expectation). In Experiment 1, both 4- and 5-year-olds appropriately adjusted characters' happiness ratings upward (low-expectation) or downward (high-expectation) relative to their initial emotions; however, only 5-year-olds made adjustments robust enough to manifest as higher final ratings for the low-expectation than the high-expectation character. In Experiments 2-3, we replicate these results and show that 5-year-olds reliably differentiate the characters' emotions even when their expectations must be inferred from context. An internal meta-analysis revealed a robust and consistent effect across the three experiments. Together, these findings provide the earliest evidence for expectation-based emotion reasoning and suggest that the ability to spontaneously generate and consider others' expectations continues to develop during preschool years. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

Studies evaluating the efficacy of anti-inflammatory treatment strategies for major depressive disorder (MDD) commonly include participants who do not demonstrate elevated concentrations of baseline inflammatory mediators, or simply fail to assess baseline inflammation. This may result in an underestimation of the efficacy of such treatment strategies. This systematic review included randomized controlled trials related to the use of anti-inflammatory treatment strategies in individuals who demonstrate elevated concentrations of inflammatory mediators, identified by searching OVID MEDLINE, OVID EMBASE, and OVID PsychINFO. Fifty-one randomized controlled trials were identified via a title and abstract screen, of which 43 were excluded following full-text screening. Of the 8 included trials (n = 437), 5 utilized anti-inflammatory pharmaceuticals, 2 utilized omega-3 fatty acids, and 1 utilized exercise and meditation. Among these studies, only the trial related to exercise and meditation demonstrated both an elevation in baseline inflammation, and a significant reduction in inflammation following intervention. Issues related to insufficient interventions and/or lack of reporting of inflammatory mediators at one or more time-points were common. Among the growing number of studies which examine the potential antidepressant benefit of anti-inflammatory treatment strategies, few have studied populations which demonstrate elevated baseline concentrations. Further, studies commonly fail to induce significant changes in inflammation following intervention. Together, this may explain the low efficacy frequently reported with such interventions. Future studies which utilize both stronger interventions (sufficient to reduce levels of inflammation), and participants with elevated baseline concentrations, may produce a more substantial influence on symptoms of (MDD).

To reduce patient anxiety caused by the MRI scanner acoustic noise. We developed a simple and low-cost system for patient distraction using visual computer animations that were synchronized to the MRI scanner's acoustic noise during the MRI exam. The system was implemented on a 3T MRI system and tested in 28 pediatric patients with bipolar disorder. The patients were randomized to receive noise-synchronized animations in the form of abstract animations in addition to music (n = 13, F/M = 6/7, age = 10.9 ± 2.5 years) or, as a control, receive only music (n = 15, F/M = 7/8, age = 11.6 ± 2.3 years). After completion of the scans, all subjects answered a questionnaire about their scan experience and the perceived scan duration. The scan duration with multisensory input (animations and music) was perceived to be ~15% shorter than in the control group (43 min vs. 50 min, P < 0.05). However, the overall scan experience was scored less favorably (3.9 vs. 4.6 in the control group, P < 0.04). This simple system provided patient distraction and entertainment leading to perceived shorter scan times, but the provided visualization with abstract animations was not favored by this patient cohort.

New research demonstrates systematic errors of tactile localisation, involving confusions of body parts and body sides. Such errors do not follow the organisation of topographic maps in somatosensory cortex, suggesting that tactile localisation involves coding of abstract features of limbs.

Inhibitory interneurons expressing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) are known to disinhibit cortical neurons. However, it is unclear how disinhibition, occurring at the single-cell level, interacts with network-level patterns of activity to shape complex behaviors. To address this, we examined the role of prefrontal VIP interneurons in a widely studied mouse behavior: deciding whether to explore or avoid the open arms of an elevated plus maze. VIP interneuron activity increases in the open arms and disinhibits prefrontal responses to hippocampal inputs, which are known to transmit signals related to open arm avoidance. Indeed, inhibiting VIP interneurons disrupts network-level representations of the open arms and decreases open arm avoidance specifically when hippocampal-prefrontal theta synchrony is strong. Thus, VIP interneurons effectively gate the ability of hippocampal input to generate prefrontal representations, which drive avoidance behavior. This shows how VIP interneurons enable cortical circuits to integrate specific inputs into network-level representations that guide complex behaviors. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

SYNE1 gene mutations were identified as a cause of late-onset pure cerebellar syndrome. Non-cerebellar symptoms, including cognitive impairment, were already described in this condition. The aim of this study was to perform a detailed cognitive and psychiatric description of patients with SYNE1 gene mutations. We performed neuropsychological and psychiatric evaluations of six patients with SYNE1 ataxia and compared their performance with 18 normal controls paired for age and education level. SYNE1 ataxia patients present cognitive dysfunction, characterized by impairment in attention and processing speed domains. Otherwise, the psychiatric assessment reported low levels of overall behavioral symptoms with only some minor anxiety-related complaints. Although this is a small sample of patients, these results suggest that SYNE1 ataxia patients may represent a model to investigate effects of cerebellar degeneration in higher hierarchical cognitive functions. For further studies, abstract thinking impairment in schizophrenia may be related to dysfunction in cerebellum pathways.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported online in  We surveyed 150 community college students (51% female;  Participants with at risk and temporary statuses reported higher fear of deportation for self, fear of family members being deported, psychological distress, and higher self-esteem than those with stable status. Academic performance did not differ across immigration statuses. Within the temporary status, DACA students experienced higher anxiety, isolation, and alienation than other temporary status students. Fear of deportation for self and family members predicted depression and isolation and alienation. Both regression analyses controlled for age, sex, region of origin, hours of work, hours of sleep, and socializing per day. The study provides new insights into how immigration status influences the psychological well-being of community college students and introduces a quantifiable framework to better understand the construct of fear of deportation. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

The Transmission of Trauma and Guilt Feelings Between Generations 

We tested predictions of multiple representation accounts of conceptual processing, including the proposal that emotion information may provide a bootstrapping mechanism for vocabulary acquisition. We investigated the influence of word valence on children's lexical processing, presenting 40 positive words, 40 neutral words, and 40 negative words in an auditory lexical decision task (ALDT), along with 120 nonwords. We tested 99 children across three age groups: 5, 6, or 7 years. There were no significant effects of valence on the ALDT responses of 5-year-old children. The 6-year-old children, however, were faster to respond to negative words than to neutral words and, for more abstract words, faster to respond to positive words than to neutral words. The 7-year-old children were faster for positive words than for neutral words, regardless of concreteness. As such, children showed sensitivity to word valence in lexical processing, at a younger age than had been established in previous research. In addition, children's language skills were related to their improved processing of more abstract neutral words between 6 and 7 years of age. These results are consistent with multimodal accounts of word meaning and lexical development.

Contaminants in drinking water, such as lead, nitrate, and arsenic, have been linked to negative physical health outcomes. We know less, however, about whether such pollutants also predict mental health problems and, if so, the conditions under which such effects are strongest. In this longitudinal study, we examined whether drinking water contaminants interact with negative family environments (parental psychological control) to predict changes in depressive symptoms in 110 adolescents-a developmental period when symptoms often first emerge. We found that for adolescents in psychologically controlling families, levels of drinking water contaminants prospectively predicted depressive symptoms 2 years later; this effect was not present in adolescents in non-controlling families. Importantly, these associations were not accounted for by family- or community-level socioeconomic resources, demographic features, or by the adolescents' stress exposure. These findings highlight the interplay of physical and psychological environments in influencing depressive symptoms in adolescents. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/thBV-DwnGcY.

We investigated the proposition that Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is associated with predictive contextual processing deficits. We recorded electroencephalography (EEG) in adults with ASD and controls during the performance of a predictive contextual processing task, using either triangles or emotional faces. Targets were preceded by either randomized sequences (R) or by sequences including a predictive sequence (P). ASD subjects showed an attenuated behavioral facilitation (P versus R) compared with controls (faces). P3b amplitudes of P, R and the predictive sequence (n-1) were attenuated in ASD compared with controls. However, the attenuation of n-1 was more pronounced during the processing of faces. Controls demonstrated shorter peak P3b latencies of P versus R, while this facilitation was absent in ASD subjects. ASD subjects demonstrated functional connectivity alterations during the processing of random (triangles and faces) and predicted targets (faces). These changes were associated with weaker, more randomised, functional connections between frontal and parietal regions in ASD. We found predictive contextual processing alterations in ASD, which were more pronounced during the processing of emotional faces compared with abstract stimuli. We provide novel evidence for the proposition that ASD is associated with deficits of top-down predictions.

The aim of the study was to investigate whether symptoms of depression or state anxiety changed the strength or nature of the association between hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) and gestational age at birth. We conducted a secondary analysis of data from the All Our Families Cohort, a prospective pregnancy cohort study based in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Self-reported depressive symptoms and state anxiety were assessed between 3 and 5 months of gestation, and obstetrical information, including diagnosis of HDP, parity, type of delivery, and gestational age at birth, was retrieved from the maternal discharge abstract. All models were adjusted for sociodemographic and obstetric confounders. Of 2763 women who had a singleton pregnancy and live birth, 247 (9%) were diagnosed with HDP. Women with HDP had significantly shorter gestational length relative to those without the diagnosis (M = 37.87 versus M = 38.99 weeks of gestation), t(2761) = 9.43, p < .001. Moderation analyses showed significant HDP by depressive symptoms and HDP by state anxiety interactions, such that the strength of the association between HDP and gestational age at birth increased alongside greater depressive symptom and state anxiety severity. Results suggest that depressive symptoms and state anxiety may add to the increased risk for shortened gestation associated with HDP. Women at high risk of cardiovascular complications during pregnancy may benefit from additional resources to manage symptoms of depression or anxiety.

No Abstract Available.

Here, we briefly overview the various aspects of classic serotonergic hallucinogens reported by a number of studies. One of the key hypotheses of our paper is that the visual effects of psychedelics might play a key role in resetting fears. Namely, we especially focus on visual processes because they are among the most prominent features of hallucinogen-induced hallucinations. We hypothesize that our brain has an ancient visual-based (preverbal) intrinsic cognitive process that, during the transient inhibition of top-down convergent and abstract thinking (mediated by the prefrontal cortex) by psychedelics, can neutralize emotional fears of unconscious and conscious life experiences from the past. In these processes, the decreased functional integrity of the self-referencing processes of the default mode network, the modified multisensory integration (linked to bodily self-consciousness and self-awareness), and the modified amygdala activity may also play key roles. Moreover, the emotional reset (elimination of stress-related emotions) by psychedelics may induce psychological changes and overwrite the stress-related neuroepigenetic information of past unconscious and conscious emotional fears.

Public health surveillance is essential to inform programs that aim to eradicate child maltreatment (CM) and to provide services to children and families. However, collection of CM data imposes a burden on child welfare workers (CWWs). This study assesses the feasibility of hiring coders to abstract the required information from administrative records and case narratives. Based on a convenience sample of child welfare data from Manitoba, Canada, two coders abstracted information on 181 alleged CM cases. The coders completed a short web-based questionnaire for each case to identify which of five types of CM had been investigated, level of substantiation for each type, and risk of future CM. The CWWs responsible for each case completed the same questionnaire. Percentages of the occurrence of CM by the three sources were compared. The validity of the coders' classifications was assessed by calculating sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values, against the CWWs' classifications as the "gold standard." Cohen's kappa was also calculated. The coders' classifications of physical abuse, sexual abuse and neglect generally matched those of CWWs; for exposure to intimate partner violence, agreement was weak for one coder. Coding of emotional maltreatment and risk investigations could not be evaluated. Results were promising. Abstraction was not time-consuming. Differences between coders and CWWs can be largely explained by the administrative data system, child welfare practice, and legislation. Further investigation is required to determine if additional training could improve coders' classifications of CM.

Older patients with advanced cancer who are 100% certain they will be cured pose unique challenges for clinical decision making, but to the authors' knowledge, the prevalence and correlates of absolute certainty about curability (ACC) are unknown. Cross-sectional data were collected in a geriatric assessment trial. ACC was assessed by asking patients, "What do you believe are the chances that your cancer will go away and never come back with treatment?" Response options were 100% (coded as ACC), >50%, 50/50, <50%, 0%, and uncertain. The willingness to bear adversity in exchange for longevity was assessed by asking patients to consider trade-offs between survival and 2 clinical outcomes that varied in abstractness: 1) maintaining quality of life (QOL; an abstract outcome); and 2) specific treatment-related toxicities (eg, nausea/vomiting, worsening memory). Logistic regression was used to assess the independent associations between willingness to bear adversity and ACC. Of the 524 patients aged 70 to 96 years, approximately 5.3% reported that there was a 100% chance that their cancer would be cured (ACC). ACC was not found to be significantly associated with willingness to bear treatment-related toxicities, but was more common among patients who were willing to trade QOL for survival (adjusted odds ratio, 4.08; 95% CI, 1.17-14.26). Patients who were more willing to bear adversity in the form of an abstract state, namely decreased QOL, were more likely to demonstrate ACC. Although conversations regarding prognosis should be conducted with all patients, those who are willing to trade QOL for survival may especially benefit from conversations that focus on values and emotions.

Depression symptom questionnaires are commonly used to assess symptom severity and as screening tools to identify patients who may have depression. They are not designed to ascertain diagnostic status and, based on published sensitivity and specificity estimates, would theoretically be expected to overestimate prevalence. Meta-analyses sometimes estimate depression prevalence based on primary studies that used screening tools or rating scales rather than validated diagnostic interviews. Our objectives were to determine classification methods used in primary studies included in depression prevalence meta-analyses, if pooled prevalence differs by primary study classification methods as would be predicted, whether meta-analysis abstracts accurately describe primary study classification methods, and how meta-analyses describe prevalence estimates in abstracts. We searched PubMed (January 2008-December 2017) for meta-analyses that reported pooled depression prevalence in the abstract. For each meta-analysis, we included up to one pooled prevalence for each of three depression classification method categories: (1) diagnostic interviews only, (2) screening or rating tools, and (3) a combination of methods. In 69 included meta-analyses (81 prevalence estimates), eight prevalence estimates (10%) were based on diagnostic interviews, 36 (44%) on screening or rating tools, and 37 (46%) on combinations. Prevalence was 31% based on screening or rating tools, 22% for combinations, and 17% for diagnostic interviews. Among 2094 primary studies in 81 pooled prevalence estimates, 277 (13%) used validated diagnostic interviews, 1604 (77%) used screening or rating tools, and 213 (10%) used other methods (e.g., unstructured interviews, medical records). Classification methods pooled were accurately described in meta-analysis abstracts for 17 of 81 (21%) prevalence estimates. In 73 meta-analyses based on screening or rating tools or on combined methods, 52 (71%) described the prevalence as being for "depression" or "depressive disorders." Results were similar for meta-analyses in journals with impact factor ≥ 10. Most meta-analyses combined estimates from studies that used screening tools or rating scales instead of diagnostic interviews, did not disclose this in abstracts, and described the prevalence as being for "depression" or "depressive disorders " even though disorders were not assessed. Users of meta-analyses of depression prevalence should be cautious when interpreting results because reported prevalence may exceed actual prevalence.

The ability to tell one's past life story and to imagine one's personal future serves important social and life defining functions like maintaining identity. In the present study, 34 adolescents diagnosed with anxiety disorders (age 9-17) and 34 community based controls wrote stories about their weekend, their past and future life stories and generated cultural life scripts. Cultural life scripts are culturally shared assumptions as to the order and timing of important life events. Adolescents in the anxiety group had less coherent past and future life stories compared to controls. Anxious adolescents also remembered their pasts as emotionally more negative than community controls, despite the fact that both groups described equally many negative experiences from their pasts. Anxious adolescents imagined their futures to consist mainly of positive events, however, they still expected their futures to be less positive than the control group, and their future life stories were more abstract and included fewer cultural life script events than the control group. Weekend stories did not differ in emotional tone and coherence between groups, suggesting that differences in past and future life stories are not due to differences in general narrative ability.

Negative affective states affect quality of life for patients suffering from pain. These maladaptive emotional states can lead to involuntary opioid overdose and many neuropsychiatric comorbidities. Uncovering the mechanisms responsible for pain-induced negative affect is critical in addressing these comorbid outcomes. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell, which integrates the aversive and rewarding valence of stimuli, exhibits plastic adaptations in the presence of pain. In discrete regions of the NAc, activation of the kappa opioid receptor (KOR) decreases the reinforcing properties of rewards and induces aversive behaviors. Using complementary techniques, we report that in vivo recruitment of NAc shell dynorphin neurons, acting through KOR, is necessary and sufficient to drive pain-induced negative affect. Taken together, our results provide evidence that pain-induced adaptations in the kappa opioid system within the NAc shell represent a functional target for therapeutic intervention that could circumvent pain-induced affective disorders. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mindful yoga combines yoga techniques with the mindfulness-based stress reduction approach. Previous studies on mindful yoga have reported improvements in depression for working-age adults, but no studies have been conducted with older people. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Mindful yoga may be a safe and acceptable intervention to improve the mental and physical health of older adults with depression. The beneficial therapeutic ingredients of mindful yoga, included calmness, being non-judgmental, letting go and seizing the day. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Single-sex mindful yoga groups may be more acceptable for some people. Well-conducted feasibility studies comparing mindful yoga with an alternative group-based approach are necessary. Abstract Introduction Mindful yoga combines yoga techniques with the mindfulness-based stress reduction approach. Previous studies on mindful yoga have reported improvements in depression for working-age adults, but no studies have been conducted with older people. Aims To explore the experiences of older adults with depression participating in a mindful yoga group to establish whether the approach has potential as a future intervention for this client group. Method This study adopted a qualitative descriptive method and used inductive content analysis. Eighteen in-depth individual interviews were conducted with nine participants (each participant had one interview following the programme and another four weeks later). Results Six main themes emerged: "improved physical status," "actively involved in the community," "positive psychological effects," "perceived therapeutic ingredients," "facilitators of practising mindful yoga" and "barriers to practising mindful yoga.". Discussion Most participants reported benefitting from the programme. Two male participants expressed that exercises were too challenging and more suited to women, suggesting single-sex groups may be more acceptable. Implications for practice Mindful yoga may be an acceptable/useful intervention for older adults with depression, but future studies are required to establish its feasibility and potential efficacy.

Perinatal mood instability (MI) is a common clinical observation in perinatal women, and existing research indicates that MI is strongly associated with a variety of mental disorders. The purpose of this study is to review the evidence of perinatal MI systematically, with a focus on perinatal MI, its relation to perinatal depression, and its effects on children. A systematic search of the literature using PRISMA guidelines was conducted on seven academic health databases to identify any peer-reviewed articles published in English from 1985 to July 2017. Studies were screened, data were extracted, and quality of the selected studies was assessed. A total of 1927 abstracts were returned from the search, with 1063 remaining for abstract screening after duplicate removal, and 4 quantitative studies were selected for final analysis. The selected studies addressed perinatal MI (n = 2), the relation of perinatal MI to perinatal depression (n = 1), and the effects of perinatal MI on children (n = 1). The selected studies identified that perinatal women experienced a significantly higher level of MI than non-perinatal women, MI is a prominent feature in perinatal women with and without depression, mood lability during the early postpartum predicts psychopathology up to 14 months postpartum, and maternal emotion dysregulation, rather than maternal psychopathology, increases the risk of heightened facial affect synchrony in mother-infant interaction. The study reveals a significant gap in the literature of perinatal MI.

Low levels of proactivity are characteristic of individuals with depression. Two studies were conducted to compare the relative effects of abstract versus concrete processing on proactivity in high dysphoric individuals. In Study 1, participants read information about an upcoming research study and were then randomly allocated to a writing task that induced them to think about participating in that study in either an abstract (e.g., Why you would participate in the study?; n = 25) or concrete (e.g., How you will participate in the study?; n = 25) way. Participants were then asked to indicate whether they would sign up to the study. As expected, more participants indicated that they would take part in the study in the concrete condition (76%) than in the abstract condition (36%). In Study 2, high dysphoric participants were asked to identify their ideal part-time job and were then randomly allocated to a writing task that induced them to think about applying for the job in an abstract (n = 26) or concrete (n = 25) way. There was no difference between conditions in self-reported intentions of proactivity. However, significantly more participants in the concrete condition opted to look at an employment assistance website and returned to the lab to collect a job application package. Overall, these findings suggest that abstract processing could contribute to low levels of proactivity in depression, and that facilitating the use of concrete processing could help to alleviate this problem. Our results also point to the need for greater conceptual clarification of the distinction between concrete processing about proactive behavior and implementation intentions (identifying specific steps for completing an action/goal).

Medical trainees and professionals do not perceive that they are adequately taught the skills to address issues of grief with their patients. Atypical grief responses can prolong suffering, interrupt normal activities and lead to increased morbidity and mortality. Grief training can help physicians cope with feelings about and responses to suffering, loss and death in a way that improves both physician and patient/family wellness. This scoping review will describe the current landscape of grief training worldwide in medical school and residency and in continuing professional development in the disciplines of paediatrics, family medicine and psychiatry. The ultimate goal is to help physicians support patients experiencing grief. The study design has been adapted from Arksey and O'Malley's review methodology. We will work with an information specialist who will run searches in six multidisciplinary databases. To supplement the search, we will scan the reference lists of included studies. Two levels of screening will take place: a title and abstract review for articles that fit predefined criteria and a full-text review of articles that meet those criteria. To be included in the review, articles must report on grief training for medical residents and professionals in the fields of paediatrics, family medicine and psychiatry. Two investigators will review each article and extract data. Research ethics approval is not required for this review. We plan to share the findings through national and international medical education conferences and to publish the results in a peer-reviewed academic journal. We have the support of several directors of medical education at our institution who are interested in the growing focus on humanism in medical education as a way of decreasing burnout among medical students, residents and faculty.

To systematically search the literature and construct a meta-synthesis of how choice and control are perceived by people with spinal cord injury (SCI). Medline, Academic Search Premier, CINAHL, Cochrane, EMBASE, HealthSource, ProQuest, PsychInfo, SAGE, and SCOPUS were searched from 1980 until September 2018 including all languages. Reference lists of selected studies were also reviewed. Eligible qualitative studies included perspectives about choice of control as reported by people with an SCI. Studies were excluded if they included perspectives from other stakeholder groups. A total of 6706 studies were screened for title and abstract and full text of 127 studies were reviewed resulting in a final selection of 29. Characteristics of the studies were extracted along with any data (author interpretations and quotes) relating to perspectives on choice and control. First-order analysis involved coding the data in each study and second-order analysis involved translating each segment of coded data into broader categories with third-order analysis condensing categories to 2 broad overarching themes. These themes were experiencing vulnerability or security and adapting to bounded abilities. Perspectives of choice and control are influenced by interrelated environmental, interpersonal, and personal contexts. From a personal perspective, participants reported a readiness for adaptation that included turning points where emotional and cognitive capacity to make choices and take control changed. Health professionals need to be responsive to this readiness, promote empowerment and foster, rather than remove, hope.

Electroencephalography (EEG)-based studies focus on depression recognition using data mining methods, while those on mild depression are yet in infancy, especially in effective monitoring and quantitative measure aspects. Aiming at mild depression recognition, this study proposed a computer-aided detection (CAD) system using convolutional neural network (ConvNet). However, the architecture of ConvNet derived by trial and error and the CAD system used in clinical practice should be built on the basis of the local database; we therefore applied transfer learning when constructing ConvNet architecture. We also focused on the role of different aspects of EEG, i.e., spectral, spatial, and temporal information, in the recognition of mild depression and found that the spectral information of EEG played a major role and the temporal information of EEG provided a statistically significant improvement to accuracy. The proposed system provided the accuracy of 85.62% for recognition of mild depression and normal controls with 24-fold cross-validation (the training and test sets are divided based on the subjects). Thus, the system can be clinically used for the objective, accurate, and rapid diagnosis of mild depression. Graphical abstract The EEG power of theta, alpha, and beta bands is calculated separately under trial-wise and frame-wise strategies and is organized into three input forms of deep neural networks: feature vector, images without electrode location (spatial information), and images with electrode location. The role of EEG's spectral and spatial information in mild depression recognition is investigated through ConvNet, and the role of EEG's temporal information is investigated using different architectures to aggregate temporal features from multiple frames. The ConvNet and models for aggregating temporal features are transferred from the state-of-the-art model in mental load classification.

A more dynamic perspective of threats to the self may contribute to an enhanced understanding of the processes that develop and maintain anxiety and thus, potentially inform psychological interventions. This article presents the looming vulnerability model of anxiety, which stresses the threat or risk prospection and dynamic mental simulation of the course of threat. Individuals do not become anxious simply because they picture distant or static possible threats that represent threats to the self. Rather, their anxiety results from interpreting potential threats as dynamic, growing, and approaching. Following a review of a wide range of literature from clinical, personality, and social psychology, we present the looming vulnerability model and its underpinnings in evolution and examine its applications to cognitive vulnerability to anxiety and its therapeutic alleviation [Correction added on 6 August 2019, after first online publication: Abstract text has been corrected to 'looming vulnerability model' in two places.]. We also address the associations of the model to other self-related concepts that are involved in anxiety.

This study presents subjective ratings for 3,022 Croatian words, which were evaluated on two affective dimensions (valence and arousal) and one lexico-semantic variable (concreteness). A sample of 933 Croatian native speakers rated the words online. Ratings showed high reliabilities for all three variables, as well as significant correlations with ratings from databases available in Spanish and English. A quadratic relation between valence and arousal was observed, with a tendency for arousal to increase for negative and positive words, and neutral words having the lowest arousal ratings. In addition, significant correlations were found between affective dimensions and word concreteness, suggesting that abstract words have a tendency to be more arousing and emotional than concrete words. The present database will allow experimental research in Croatian, a language with a considerable lack of psycholinguistic norms, by providing researchers with a useful tool in the investigation of the relationship between language and emotion for the South-Slavic group of languages.

Neuropathy, typically diagnosed by the presence of either symptoms or signs of peripheral nerve dysfunction, remains a frequently reported complication in the antiretroviral (ART)-treated HIV population. This study was conducted in 109 healthy controls and 57 HIV-infected individuals to investigate CNS regions associated with neuropathy. An index of objective neuropathy was computed based on 4 measures: deep tendon ankle reflex, vibration sense (great toes), position sense (great toes), and 2-point discrimination (feet). Subjective neuropathy (self-report of pain, aching, or burning; pins and needles; or numbness in legs or feet) was also evaluated. Structural MRI data were available for 126/166 cases. The HIV relative to the healthy control group was impaired on all 4 signs of neuropathy. Within the HIV group, an objective neuropathy index of 1 (bilateral impairment on 1 measure) or 2 (bilateral impairment on at least 2/4 measures) was associated with older age and a smaller volume of the cerebellar vermis. Moderate to severe symptoms of neuropathy were associated with more depressive symptoms, reduced quality of life, and a smaller volume of the parietal precuneus. This study is consistent with the recent contention that ART-treated HIV-related neuropathy has a CNS component. Distinguishing subjective symptoms from objective signs of neuropathy allowed for a dissociation between the precuneus, a brain region involved in conscious information processing and the vermis, involved in fine tuning of limb movements. Graphical Abstract In HIV patients, objective signs of neuropathy correlated with smaller cerebellar vermis (red) volumes whereas subjective symptoms of neuropathy were associated with smaller precuneus (blue) volumes.

This prospective study evaluated the effectiveness of a rehabilitation program in vulnerable children with language deficits. Evaluating reversibility of a sensory understimulation. Two groups of five students, each, (sensory and not sensory deprived) were evaluated at ages 5 and 11. Both groups were taught the compulsory national educational program. The sensory deprived group also had a 5-year rehabilitation program. After that time, their language and vocabulary were reevaluated. Both groups became able to read, write and perform mathematical operations. Both groups took the compulsory elementary school national performance test and all of them performed above the national average. Despite these good performances the differences between both groups regarding language persisted. Deficits in children with early sensory deprivation are improved with rehabilitation programs. In order to achieve better restoration, intervention should be done earlier than at 5 years of age. Even if some deficits are not fully reversible, the improvement is significant and allows social inclusion and the possibility of breaking their circle of vulnerability. Documenting the importance of early rehabilitation in sensory deficits.

Over the last few decades, medical and surgical advances have led to a growing population of individuals living with congenital heart disease. The challenges of this condition can reach beyond physical limitations to include anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. To date, these psychological outcomes have been neglected; yet, they need not be inevitable. The factors contributing to these difficulties are considered here, drawing on current evidence and neuropsychological theories including the novel application of polyvagal theory. Suggestions for developing psychologically informed medical and social care to improve mental health, wellbeing and recovery and influence policy and training are proposed (See supplemental material for video abstract).

CME: Depression in Primary Care Abstract. Depressions belong to the most common illnesses at all and to the five most common illnesses in the primary care. The primary care is the first point of contact for depressive patients and therefore has a key role in the early detection and initial treatment of depressive patients. A depressive disorder presents frequently with diffuse, unspecific and mostly somatic complaints. In the primary care only about half of the depressive disorders are detected. An undetected and untreated depression can have fatal consequences for the patients. Once detected, a depressive disorder is treatable. A very important screening test for the early detection of a depression is the two-question-test (sensitivity 96 %, specificity 57 %).

Previous cross-sectional studies show that low income is associated with poor mental health. However, longitudinal research has produced varying results. We assess whether low income is associated with increased psychotropic drug use after accounting for confounding by observed time-varying, and unobserved stable individual differences. The longitudinal register-based data comprises an 11% nationally representative random sample of Finnish residents aged 30-62 years between the years 2003 and 2013. The analytic sample includes 337,456 individuals (2,825,589 person-years). We estimate the association between annual income and psychotropic purchasing using ordinary-least-squares and fixed effects models, the latter controlling for all unobserved time-invariant individual characteristics. The annual prevalence of psychotropic purchasing was 15%; 13% among men and 18% among women. Adjusted for age squared, sex and calendar year, the doubling of income decreased the probability of purchases by 4 percentage points (95% confidence interval: 4,4) in the ordinary-least-squares model. We observed no association after further adjusting for observed sociodemographic characteristics and unobserved individual differences in the fixed effects specification. Following adjustment for an extensive set of confounders, no contemporaneous association between variations in annual individual income and psychotropic drug purchasing was observed. Similar results were obtained irrespective of baseline income level and sex. The results imply that indirect selection based on preexisting individual characteristics plays a major role in explaining the association between variations in income measured over the short term, and psychotropic drug purchases. The association appears largely attributable to unobserved, stable individual characteristics. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B463.

Anxiety is highly prevalent in pre-adolescent children. Distorted cognitions are characteristic for dysfunctional levels of anxiety. However, applying cognitive elements in pre-adolescent children cannot be fully ascertained, as it is not until adolescence before children can apply logical and abstract reasoning in a sophisticated manner. Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) and acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) both target distorted cognitions. Whereas CBT encourages children to change the content of negative cognitions by applying cognitive restructuring, ACT stimulates youth to have a more accepting attitude towards these thoughts by applying cognitive defusion. The current study examined the efficacy of applying cognitive elements and compared the cognitive elements of CBT and ACT in pre-adolescent children. We included no behavioural elements to specifically study the developmental appropriateness of the cognitive elements in this age group. Highly anxious children, aged 8-12 years were randomised to a 30-minute cognitive restructuring (n = 21) or cognitive defusion intervention (n = 22). Subjective fear of the dark levels, behavioural darkness toleration, and comprehension and fun associated with the interventions were assessed. Both interventions had a significantly positive impact on children's fear of the dark. Cognitive restructuring led to more favourable results on subjective fear than cognitive defusion, no differences were found for darkness toleration.

Early posterior negativity (EPN) is an early-occurring, event-related, potential that is elicited by pictures and words that have highly arousing characteristics. Whilst EPN has been found with words presented in isolation several times, different types of words have shown quite different effects across different types of tasks. One possible reason for this is that memory and attentional demands may affect the way semantic features of words are processed, and this may modulate EPN. This was investigated in a silent reading task using abstract and concrete words of negative and neutral valence and a dual phonological working memory task to manipulate memory load. The results showed that abstract but not concrete words elicited EPN, and this may have affected downstream processing. Further analyses examining alpha desynchronization showed that negative concrete words appeared to be significantly affected by the memory load manipulation, unlike negative abstract words. These results provide evidence that the processing of features in negative concrete words is more affected by working memory and attentional demands than the processing of features in negative abstract words, and this may be responsible for the failure of negative concrete words to elicit EPN in this study. Thus, the extent to which words elicit EPN appears to be dependent on both their semantic representations and competing cognitive processes. These results provide a potential explanation for some of the differences that have been reported in previous experiments as well as insight into how memory and attention can affect the processing of the semantic features of words.

Understanding how the brain translates a structured sequence of sounds, such as music, into a pleasant and rewarding experience is a fascinating question which may be crucial to better understand the processing of abstract rewards in humans. Previous neuroimaging findings point to a challenging role of the dopaminergic system in music-evoked pleasure. However, there is a lack of direct evidence showing that dopamine function is causally related to the pleasure we experience from music. We addressed this problem through a double blind within-subject pharmacological design in which we directly manipulated dopaminergic synaptic availability while healthy participants (

Socialization is an important part of the healthy aging process, but natural changes in the lifestyle and health of older people increased risk of loneliness. However, loneliness is not well defined and might differ in different cultures and settings. The main objective of this systematic review is to summarize literature on the topic and propose a definition that might help aging research and practice in the future. Eight databases including PubMed, Scopus, CINAHL, Web of Science, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Proquest, and Age Line bibliographic will be run individually to retrieve relevant literature on loneliness among elderly population using subject headings and appropriate MeSH terms. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be developed and refined by the research team. Two reviewers will participate in each search stage including abstract/title and full text screening, data extraction, and appraisal. We will restrict our search to articles published in the English language biomedical journal between 2000 and 2017. The protocol adheres to the standards recommended by the PRISMA-P. The results of this systematic review can present a more accurate definition of loneliness for researchers who aim at conducting new primary and secondary studies on this subject. CRD42017058729.

Stress-induced alterations in oxidative and inflammatory parameters have been implicated in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. Based on the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of the selenium-containing compound 3-((4-chlorophenyl)selanyl)-1-methyl-1H-indole (CMI), we assessed its ability to reverse depression-like behavioral alterations, neuroinflammation, and oxidative imbalance induced by acute restraint stress. Mice submitted to restraint for 240 min received CMI (1 or 10 mg/kg, orally) 10 min after the end of the stress induction. Behavioral and biochemical tests were carried out after further 30 min. Restraint-induced depression-like behavior in the tail suspension test (TST), splash test, and new object exploration test was reversed by CMI. None of the treatments evoked locomotor alteration. In addition, CMI abrogated restraint-induced increases in plasma levels of corticosterone and in markers of oxidative stress and impaired superoxide dismutase and catalase activity in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus (HC). CMI also blocked stress-induced downregulation of mRNA levels of glucocorticoid receptor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor and upregulation of nuclear factor kappa B, inducible nitric oxide synthase, tumor necrosis alpha, indoelamine-2,3-dioxygenase, and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta in PFC and HC. These preclinical results indicate that administration of selenium-containing compounds might help to treat depression associated with inflammation and oxidative stress. Graphical abstract ᅟ.

To investigate whether less invasive methods of autopsy would be acceptable to bereaved parents and likely to increase uptake. Mixed methods study. Bereaved parents recruited prospectively across seven hospitals in England and retrospectively through four parent support organisations. Eight hundred and fifty-nine surveys and 20 interviews with bereaved parents. Cross-sectional survey and qualitative semi-structured telephone interviews. Likely uptake, preferences, factors impacting decision-making, views on different autopsy methods. Overall, 90.5% of participants indicated that they would consent to some form of less invasive autopsy [either minimally invasive autopsy (MIA), non-invasive autopsy (NIA) or both]; 53.8% would consent to standard autopsy, 74.3% to MIA and 77.3% to NIA. Regarding parental preferences, 45.5% preferred MIA, 30.8% preferred NIA and 14.3% preferred standard autopsy. Participants who indicated they would decline standard autopsy but would consent to a less invasive option were significantly more likely to have a lower educational level (odds ratio 0.49; 95% CI 0.35-0.70; P = 0.000062). Qualitative findings suggest that parents value NIA because of the lack of any incision and MIA is considered a good compromise as it enables tissue sampling while easing the parental burden associated with consenting to standard autopsy. Less invasive methods of autopsy are acceptable alternatives for bereaved parents, and if offered, are likely to increase uptake and improve parental experience. Further health economic, validation and implementation studies are now required to assess the viability of offering these in routine widespread clinical care. Mixed methods UK study finds less invasive methods of autopsy are acceptable alternatives for bereaved parents, and if offered, are likely to increase uptake and improve parental experience.

The paper introduces a new perspective on abstract concepts (e.g. "freedom") and their associate words representation, the Words As social Tools (WAT) view. Traditional theories conceptualize language as a way to index referents, a shortcut to access meaning, or a way to access meaning through words associations. WAT goes beyond these theories by identifying additional functions of words and language: words are tools helping us to perform actions and change the state of our social environment, and language is a means to improve our thought abilities, to control our behavior and plays a predictive role, helping us to form categories. Most importantly, WAT proposes that language and sociality - along with interoceptive and metacognitive processes - are key for the grounding of abstract concepts (ACs) that are more complex, variable, and more detached from perceptual and motor experience than concrete concepts (CCs). We highlight four tenets of WAT and discuss each of them in light of recent evidence: a. acquisition: compared to concrete concepts, the acquisition of abstract concepts relies more on social and linguistic inputs; b. brain representation: abstract concepts recruit more linguistic and social brain areas; c. mouth activation: due to the relevance of language for representing them, abstract concepts activate more the oral motor system; d. linguistic variability: abstract concepts are more affected by differences between spoken languages. We discuss evidence supporting these four tenets of WAT, and its advantages and limitations compared to other views on abstract concepts. Finally, we outline a conceptual proposal that specifies how internal models supporting the representation and processing of ACs can be grounded on interoceptive, metacognitive, social, and linguistic experience.

Worries preoccupy the working memory capacity in anxious individuals, thereby affecting their performance during tasks that require efficient attention regulation. According to the attentional control theory (ACT), trait anxiety affects the processing efficiency, i.e. the effort required for task performance, more than the accuracy of task performance. We investigated the relation between trait anxiety and neural response for a reasoning task in healthy subjects. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was carried out on 22 healthy participants and blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) contrast estimates were extracted from a priori regions of interest (ROIs) that were earlier implicated in reasoning (i.e., bilaterally caudate head, globus pallidus, thalamus, prefrontal cortex [[ostral, dorsal and ventral regions]] inferior parietal lobule and middle occipital gyrus). Controlling for the effects of age, gender, state anxiety and depressive symptoms, for equivalent levels of task performance, trait anxiety of the participants was found to be associated with an increase in task related BOLD activation in right globus pallidus, left thalamus and left middle occipital gyrus. Our results suggest a reduced processing efficiency for reasoning in high trait anxiety subjects and provides important brain-behaviour relationships with respect to sub-clinical anxiety.

The purpose of this study was to carry out a review of observational studies that consider links between mobile phone use and mental health from a psychological or behavioral perspective. Systematic literature searches in PubMed and PsycINFO for articles published until 2017 were done. Exclusion criteria included: papers that considered radiofrequency fields, attention, safety, relational consequences, sexual behavior, cyberbullying, and reviews, qualitative, and case or experimental studies. A total of 4738 papers were screened by title and abstract, 404 were retrieved in full text, and 290 were included. Only 5% had any longitudinal design. Self-reporting was the dominating method of measurement. One third of the studies included children or youth. A majority of adult populations consisted of university students and/or self-selected participants. The main research results included associations between frequent mobile phone use and mental health outcomes, such as depressive symptoms and sleep problems. Mobile phone use at bedtime was associated with, e.g., shorter sleep duration and lower sleep quality. "Problematic use" (dependency) was associated with several negative outcomes. In conclusion, associations between mobile phone use and adverse mental health outcomes are found in studies that take a psychological or behavioral perspective on the exposure. However, more studies of high quality are needed in order to draw valid conclusions about the mechanisms and causal directions of associations.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Interaction between staff and patients with a diagnosis of personality disorder in forensic settings is important for quality of care, but research is lacking on what determines this interaction. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Insight, emotion-focused coping and emotion regulation of staff influence the interaction between staff and these patients. Staff who understand their own thoughts, feelings and behaviour better (more insight) needed less support, encouragement or back-up from their patients. Staff who cope by getting upset, blaming themselves or fantasizing about solutions (emotion-focused coping) on the contrary needed more support from their patients. Emotion regulation had an impact on the relation between coping and hostile staff behaviour. When staff get upset (emotion-focused coping) and try to think differently about the situation (reappraisal), this makes them behave in a more hostile manner towards their patients. When staff suppress their emotions and also distract themselves or engage in social activities (avoidance-focused coping), they behave in a less hostile manner towards their patients. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: In order to provide compassionate care for their patients, staff ought to be trained in self-compassion. This may help them not to get upset, blame themselves or fantasize about solutions and to understand their own thoughts, feelings and behaviour better. As a result, staff may need less support, encouragement or back-up from their patients. Context is important: Staff ought to suppress their emotions when emotions run high, but only when they also care for themselves by distracting themselves or engaging in social activities. Facing and regulating their emotions by changing what they think about the situation (reappraisal) may be more appropriate once emotions have settled down. This may help staff to remain compassionate towards their patients in the long run and avoid burn-out or compassion fatigue due to ignoring their own needs and boundaries. ABSTRACT: Introduction Research is lacking on what determines interaction between staff and patients with a diagnosis of personality disorder in forensic settings. Aim To test whether coping, self-reflection, insight and emotion regulation are related to the behaviour of staff towards these patients, and to test the possible moderating and mediating effect of emotion regulation. Method Using a cross-sectional design, 76 direct care staff of a forensic clinic completed questionnaires on all variables. Relations were tested using simple linear regression, mediation and moderation analyses. Results Insight and emotion-focused coping of staff were related to seeking less and more support from patients, respectively. Emotion regulation by reappraisal combined with emotion-focused coping was associated with more hostile behaviour by staff, and suppression combined with avoidance-focused coping with less hostile behaviour. Conclusion Insight, emotion-focused coping and emotion regulation of staff influence the quality of care of patients with a diagnosis of personality disorder in forensic settings. Future research ought to include contextual factors. Implications for practice Enhancing self-compassion may improve insight and reduce emotion-focused coping. Context is important: Taking the needs of staff into account may involve suppressing emotions combined with avoidance in a highly emotional situation while facing and reappraising the situation when emotions are low.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Individuals with eating disorders (EDs) experience hopelessness, suicidal thoughts and behaviours at elevated rates compared to the general population. Current knowledge of recovery from EDs does not address nurse engendered hope. This study aimed to explore differences between patients' and nurses' perceptions of hope-engendering nurse actions and the relationship actions have with patients' perception of hope. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first study to explore differences between patients' and nurses' perceptions of hope-engendering nurse actions in an inpatient ED facility and find significant differences; nurses' scores were higher than patients' scores. The study explored the relationship perceived self-reported nurse hope-engendering actions have with patients' and nurses' perception of hope. There were no significant relationships. This study provides additional evidence to support that there are common patient needs for nurse hope-engendering practices such as caring and providing for patients; supporting and encouraging patients' connection to others; facilitating patients' adaptive belief systems; and helping to set goals and attain resources for patients. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING PRACTICE?: Nurses who work with patients who have EDs should be prepared to work with patients who are feeling hopeless about their future. Thus, nursing continuing education should focus on strategies that enable nurses to deliver care that reduces hopelessness, improves connection, and inspires hope in those who are recovering from EDs. The results revealed that nurses perceived that they offered patients with EDs hope-engendering actions more often and effectively than patients believed; this finding pinpoints a future direction for research that may improve care for patients. Patient feedback identified ways nurses may improve care to engender hope: providing an open caring environment, nurse presence, comfort/pain relief, and involving patients in their care. Actions by nurses aimed to enhance interpersonal connection and nurse presence could facilitate hope in patients with ED. ABSTRACT: Introduction Individuals with eating disorders (EDs) experience suicidal thoughts and behaviours at elevated rates compared to the general population. Hope-engendering nursing actions may increase patients' levels of hope for the future, improve coping self-efficacy, and possibly reduce suicidality. Although nursing staff are integral ED treatment team members, little is known about nursing actions targeting hopefulness. Aim Explore differences between patients' and nurses' perceptions of hope-engendering nurse actions and the relationship actions have with patients' perception of hope. Methods Descriptive, cross-sectional, comparative, correlational research design was used. Responses for 97 ED patients and 10 nurses were entered into analysis. Hope-engendering nurse intervention and hope questionnaires were administered and analysed. Results Nurses' total hope-engendering nurse intervention and hope scores were higher than patients' scores. Discussion Patients reported that the most effective nursing actions were providing an open caring environment, comfort/pain relief, and involving patients in their care and treatment. Nurses perceived that they offered patients hope-engendering actions more often and effectively than the patients believed. Implications for Practice Findings indicate that patients with EDs have low levels of hope. Nursing educators should further develop strategies that enable nurses to deliver care that inspires hope and improves connectedness in those who have EDs.

This study explored phenomenological aspects of auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) and other psychotic symptoms among youth with borderline personality disorder (BPD). Sixty-eight outpatients, aged 15 to 25 years, were categorized into three groups according to their primary Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) diagnosis and AVH symptom profile; BPD + AVH (n = 23), schizophrenia spectrum disorder (SZ) + AVH (n = 22) and BPD with no AVH (n = 23). No differences in AVH were found between BPD + AVH and SZ + AVH. Compared with SZ + AVH, BPD + AVH scored lower on delusions and difficulty in abstract thinking and higher on hostility. BPD + AVH reported more severe self-harm, paranoid ideation, dissociation, anxiety and stress than BPD no AVH. This study replicates, in a sample of youth, the finding from studies of adults that AVH in BPD are indistinguishable from those in SZ, when assessed with the Psychotic Symptom Rating Scales (PSYRATS). Clinicians should specifically enquire about AVH among youth with BPD. When present, AVH appear to be an indicator of a more severe form of BPD.

An outstanding question in empirical aesthetics concerns whether negative emotions (e.g., fear, disgust) can improve aesthetic judgments of liking. Although negative emotions are sometimes linked with enjoyment in music or visual design/art, emotion priming studies have shown conflicting results, reporting both more negative and more positive assessments. These divergences may be driven by key differences in priming procedures. Specifically, past studies' use of either emotional faces or emotional scenes as primes as well as differing negative emotion content (fear, disgust) may involve differing processes leading to opposing effects, particularly in aesthetic judgments. To differentiate among these, we presented emotion primes (20 ms) consisting of either emotional faces or scenes, further subdivided in disgusting, fearful, neutral, or positive emotional content and tested how liking, valence, and arousal ratings of abstract patterns were affected. Additionally, facial electromyography (fEMG) over M. frontalis (indicator of fear), M. levator labii (disgust), and M. zygomaticus (positive) muscles was recorded, to see whether primes would elicit prime-emotion congruent changes. However, fEMG activations indicated no prime congruent changes. Critically, primes influenced ratings in an emotion congruent manner in both faces and emotional scenes. Stimuli were rated as more liked and positively valenced after positive primes and less liked/more negatively valenced after fear or disgust primes. The similarity of priming effects in both prime types in absence of congruent fEMG changes may suggest that priming exerts its influence via a cognitive rather than a more immediate emotional route. Overall-at least in emotional priming-negative emotions seem to be incompatible with higher liking. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

Chronic mountain sickness (CMS) is a maladaptation syndrome encountered at high altitude (HA) characterised by severe hypoxaemia that carries a higher risk of stroke and migraine and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We examined if exaggerated oxidative-inflammatory-nitrosative stress (OXINOS) and corresponding decrease in vascular nitric oxide bioavailability in patients with CMS (CMS+) is associated with impaired cerebrovascular function and adverse neurological outcome. Systemic OXINOS was markedly elevated in CMS+ compared to healthy HA (CMS-) and low-altitude controls. OXINOS was associated with blunted cerebral perfusion and vasoreactivity to hypercapnia, impaired cognition and, in CMS+, symptoms of depression. These findings are the first to suggest that a physiological continuum exists for hypoxaemia-induced systemic OXINOS in HA dwellers that when excessive is associated with accelerated cognitive decline and depression, helping identify those in need of more specialist neurological assessment and targeted support. Chronic mountain sickness (CMS) is a maladaptation syndrome encountered at high altitude (HA) characterised by severe hypoxaemia that carries a higher risk of stroke and migraine and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The present cross-sectional study examined to what extent exaggerated systemic oxidative-inflammatory-nitrosative stress (OXINOS), defined by an increase in free radical formation and corresponding decrease in vascular nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability, is associated with impaired cerebrovascular function, accelerated cognitive decline and depression in CMS. Venous blood was obtained from healthy male lowlanders (80 m, n = 17), and age- and gender-matched HA dwellers born and bred in La Paz, Bolivia (3600 m) with (CMS+, n = 23) and without (CMS-, n = 14) CMS. We sampled blood for oxidative (electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, HPLC), nitrosative (ozone-based chemiluminescence) and inflammatory (fluorescence) biomarkers. We employed transcranial Doppler ultrasound to measure cerebral blood flow (CBF) and reactivity. We utilised psychometric tests and validated questionnaires to assess cognition and depression. Highlanders exhibited elevated systemic OXINOS (P < 0.05 vs. lowlanders) that was especially exaggerated in the more hypoxaemic CMS+ patients (P < 0.05 vs. CMS-). OXINOS was associated with blunted cerebral perfusion and vasoreactivity to hypercapnia, impaired cognition and, in CMS+, symptoms of depression. Collectively, these findings are the first to suggest that a physiological continuum exists for hypoxaemia-induced OXINOS in HA dwellers that when excessive is associated with accelerated cognitive decline and depression, helping identify those in need of specialist neurological assessment and support.

Aesthetic appraisal of artwork can present the observer with visual problems to solve in the process of grasping its meaning and 'visual rightness' (i.e. "good" structure; Locher, 2003), with an elaboration on perceptual, semantic and affective dimensions (e.g. Marković, 2011). Thus observer's expertise is a factor in aesthetic appraisal. To examine the influence of art training on the aesthetic response, and to clarify the nature of the Representational/Abstract distinction, 30 Experts and 33 Non-experts (Art and Psychology students, respectively) were asked to rate 24 paintings on six affective and affective-evaluative semantic differential scales. Stimuli were images of paintings from the period 1900-1935, 12 broadly Representational and 12 broadly Abstract. Relative to Non-experts, Experts rated Abstract artworks as more Interesting, Beautiful, Informative and Sophisticated, distinguishing them less markedly from Representational artworks. Aggregate Expert and Non-expert ratings, processed by factor analysis, resulted in a two-factor solution. The first factor, contrasting Abstract and Representational artworks, appeared more salient for Non-experts. The second factor, Cool-Warm, separating vibrantly-colored paintings from those with a blue-dominated/dull palette, was more salient for Experts. While Non-experts exaggerated differences between Abstract and Representational paintings, Experts appraised these two types of art similarly, attending more to artwork collative properties. We conclude that appreciation of art by Experts involves 'cognitive mastery' (Leder, Belke, Oeberst, & Augustin, 2004), i.e. more complex, cues-based visual schemata which equip them with more sophisticated strategies for analysing collative properties and semantics of an artwork while parsing 'visual rightness' to unfold its visual meaning.

NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are required for long-term depression (LTD) at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses, but their cellular localization and physiological functions in vivo are unclear. NMDARs in molecular-layer interneurons (MLIs), but not granule cells or Purkinje cells, are required for LTD, but not long-term potentiation induced by low-frequency stimulation of parallel fibres. Nitric oxide produced by NMDAR activation in MLIs probably mediates LTD induction. NMDARs in granule cells or Purkinje cells are dispensable for motor learning during adaptation of horizontal optokinetic responses. Long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD), which serve as cellular synaptic plasticity models for learning and memory, are crucially regulated by N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) in various brain regions. In the cerebellum, LTP and LTD at parallel fibre (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapses are thought to mediate certain forms of motor learning. However, while NMDARs are essential for LTD in vitro, their cellular localization remains controversial. In addition, whether and how NMDARs mediate motor learning in vivo remains unclear. Here, we examined the contribution of NMDARs expressed in granule cells (GCs), PCs and molecular-layer interneurons (MLIs) to LTD/LTP and motor learning by generating GC-, PC- and MLI/PC-specific knockouts of Grin1, a gene encoding an obligatory GluN1 subunit of NMDARs. While robust LTD and LTP were induced at PF-PC synapses in GC- and PC-specific Grin1 (GC-Grin1 and PC-Grin1, respectively) conditional knockout (cKO) mice, only LTD was impaired in MLI/PC-specific Grin1 (MLI/PC-Grin1) cKO mice. Application of diethylamine nitric oxide (NO) sodium, a potent NO donor, to the cerebellar slices restored LTD in MLI/PC-Grin1 cKO mice, suggesting that NO is probably downstream to NMDARs. Furthermore, the adaptation of horizontal optokinetic responses (hOKR), a cerebellar motor learning task, was normally observed in GC-Grin1 cKO and PC-Grin1 cKO mice, but not in MLI/PC-Grin1 cKO mice. These results indicate that it is the NMDARs expressed in MLIs, but not in PCs or GCs, that play important roles in LTD in vitro and motor learning in vivo.

Atopic dermatitis (AD) is associated with psychologic distress. However, previous studies found conflicting results about whether AD is associated with increased depression or suicidality. To determine the complex relationship between AD and depression. A systematic review of all published observational studies in the MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, Global Resource for Eczema Trials (GREAT), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences (LILACS), the Cochrane Library, Scopus, and PsychInfo databases that analyzed depression in AD was performed. Two reviewers performed study title and/or abstract review and data abstraction. Pooled meta-analysis was performed by using random-effects weighting. Overall, 106 studies met the inclusion criteria; 36 had sufficient data for meta-analysis. The prevalence of any depression was higher in persons with versus without AD (20.1% vs 14.8%). Similar results were found in sensitivity analyses of studies assessing clinical depression, depressive symptoms, and adults; studies with healthy controls; and studies of low and high study quality. AD was associated with significantly higher depression scale scores, parental depression, antidepressant use, and suicidality. No publication bias was detected. Individual-level data were not available. Patients with AD have higher odds of depression and suicidality.

Reduced estradiol levels are associated with depression in women during the transition to and after menopause. A considerable number of studies focusing on the theme of treating depression through the activation of erythropoietin (EPO)-induced signaling pathways have been published. Venlafaxine is an approved antidepressant drug that inhibits both serotonin and norepinephrine transporters. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of venlafaxine on the depressive-like behaviors and serum estradiol levels in female rats following ovariectomy (OVX) and the possible roles of EPO-induced signaling pathways. Venlafaxine (10 mg/kg/day) was orally administered to OVX rats over a period of 4 weeks using two different treatment regimens: either starting 24 h or 2 weeks after OVX. Venlafaxine showed a superior efficacy in inducing antidepressant-like effects after an acute treatment (24 h post-OVX) than after the delayed treatment (2 weeks post-OVX) and was characterized by a decreased immobility time in the forced swimming test. In parallel, venlafaxine induced EPO and EPO receptor mRNA expression and increased levels of phospho-Janus kinase 2 (p-JAK2), phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription 5, and phospho-extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in the hippocampus of OVX rats. Meanwhile, rats exhibited a marked reduction in the hippocampal Bax/Bcl2 ratio, caspase-3 activity, and tumor necrosis factor alpha levels after venlafaxine treatment. Venlafaxine also increased the hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor and serum estradiol levels. Based on these findings, venlafaxine exerts a neuroprotective effect on OVX rats that is at least partially attributed to the activation of EPO/EPOR/JAK2 signaling pathways, anti-apoptotic activities, anti-inflammatory activities, and neurotrophic activities, as well as an increase in serum estradiol level. Graphical Abstract ᅟ.

Childhood adversity has been shown to exert profound effects on basic psychological processes well into adulthood. Some of these processes, such as those related to reward and emotion, play critical roles in moral decision-making. As a population with high rates of childhood trauma as well as heterogenous clinical presentation, individuals with bipolar disorder (BD) constitute an enriched group in which to examine the correlates of trauma and other clinical variables with moral cognition. 62 euthymic BD patients and 27 controls responded to moral dilemma scenarios and completed the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire. Results revealed a main effect of diagnosis on moral decision-making only when both personal force and an intention were required, indicating a more utilitarian style in BD patients relative to controls. Several interesting patterns also emerged regardless of diagnostic status. Higher ratings of physical neglect were significantly associated with higher ratings of acceptability (a utilitarian tendency) across dilemma types, and a similar pattern was observed at the trend level for experiences of emotional neglect. Significant main effects on moral decision-making were also observed for sex, illness duration, and history of psychotic features in the BD sample. The present study is limited by the self-reported nature of the CTQ and by the small number of trials of moral dilemmas. In addition, practical and clinical implications of the moral dilemmas paradigm are limited due to its abstract nature. Our results indicate that certain clinical features as well as childhood maltreatment (in particular neglect) may significantly impact moral decision making in adult life. Surprisingly, childhood trauma was associated with a more utilitarian style, which is in the opposite direction from previous effects shown in PTSD. Although speculative, our results suggest that there may be a protective quality associated with utilitarian moral decision-making tendencies.

Psychopathology has been closely related with artists. A link between creativity and a tendency to affective disorders has become widely accepted. Several studies have shown that artists suffer disproportionately high rates of mood disorders, particularly manic depression and major depression. The famous twentieth century Spanish artist Joan Miró suffered from depression during the entirety of his life, as was recognized by some authors in private letters. The artist worked using several styles, as well as in ceramics and sculpture. Some of his work reflects the feelings he experienced during the Spanish Civil War and the Second World War. He contributed considerably to the world of art with works such as The Farm as the culminant work of detailism, The Harlequin's Carnival as one of the main expressions of surrealism, the Birth of the World as the precursor of abstract expressionism, or The Dutch Interiors with "mironians" shapes, among others. Whether depression was the inspiration for his work, or his work was the treatment for his depression, will never be clarified. However, he left a great legacy for humanity and his work is admired all over the world.

Surgeons present patients with complex information at the perioperative appointment. Emotions likely play a role in surgical decision-making, and disgust is an emotion of revulsion at a stimulus that can lead to avoidance. The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of disgust on intention to undergo surgical resection for colorectal cancer and recall of perioperative instructions. This was a cross-sectional observational study conducted online using hypothetical scenarios with nonpatient subjects. The study was conducted using Amazon's Mechanical Turk. Survey respondents were living in the United States. Surgery intention and recall of perioperative instructions were measured. A total of 319 participants met the inclusion criteria. Participants in the experimental condition, who were provided with detailed information and pictures about stoma care, had significantly lower surgery intentions (mean ± SD, 4.60 ± 1.15) compared with the control condition with no stoma prompt (mean ± SD, 5.14 ± 0.91; p = 0.05) and significantly lower recall for preoperative instructions (mean ± SD, 13.75 ± 2.38) compared with the control condition (mean ± SD, 14.36 ± 2.19; p = 0.03). Those within the experimental conditions also reported significantly higher state levels of disgust (mean ± SD, 4.08 ± 1.74) compared with a control condition (mean ± SD, 2.35 ± 1.38; p < 0.001). State-level disgust was found to fully mediate the relationship between condition and recall (b = -0.31) and to partially mediate the effect of condition on surgery intentions (b = 0.17). It is unknown whether these results will replicate with patients and the impact of competing emotions in clinical settings. Intentions to undergo colorectal surgery and recall of preoperative instructions are diminished in patients who experience disgust when presented with stoma information. Surgeons and care teams must account for this as they perform perioperative counseling to minimize interference with recall of important perioperative information. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A776.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mothers with mental health problems are at risk of well-being and experience lack of support. There is little research focusing on the effect of household composition on health of Hispanic mothers with mental illness. As the family is a central feature in Hispanic lives and there is a high dependence on the family for help, it is crucial to understand how household composition and family functioning influences Hispanic mothers' health and well-being. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Living with at least one other adult in the household are related to better Hispanic mothers' physical and psychological health. Mothers living with a greater number of adult in the house are more likely to have fatigue and depression. More family hassles are associated with worse health outcomes in Hispanic mothers with mental health problems WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is a need to assess family members who are supportive to Hispanic mothers and to address families' basic needs in the intervention. Interventions for Hispanic mothers with mental health problems should be grounded in supporting the strengths of the Hispanic familial networks. A family-centred approach for mothers with mental health problems requires integrated assessments and interventions including the families as units. ABSTRACT: Introduction Household composition is seen as a critical factor for recovery of Hispanic mothers with mental illness, but little research has examined the relationship of household composition and health. Aim This study examined how household composition and family functioning impact on both physical and psychological health of Hispanic mothers receiving outpatient mental health services. Method The study analysed baseline data of 137 Hispanic mothers participating in a randomized trial of "Healthy Home," a family-strengthening home health intervention. A bilingual (English/Spanish) research assessor interviewed participants regarding household composition, family hassles, family cohesion and mother's physical and psychological health. Results Mothers living with at least one other adult and having fewer family hassles had better health outcomes. Mothers living with a greater number of adult in the house were more likely to have fatigue and depression. Discussion Hispanic mothers having no adults to help them in the house are less able to maintain their physical and psychological health. A family-centred approach for mothers requires integrated assessments and interventions including the families as units. Implication for practice Interventions for Hispanic mothers with mental health problems should be grounded in supporting the values and strengths of the Hispanic familial networks.

Neuroinflammation is one of the key factors contributing to depression. Recent studies have identified P2X7 receptor (P2X7r) as a major inflammatory regulator. However, the effects of P2X7r knockout (KO) on emotional conditions over the lifespan of mice are unknown. In this study, the effects of P2X7r deletion on emotional conditions over the lifespan of mice were investigated in young-aged (2 month old), middle-aged (10 month old), and old-aged (18 month old) female P2X7r KO mice and age-matched female C57BL/6 mice. Behavioral tasks were conducted by open field test, forced swimming test and sucrose preference test. Mitochondrial structures and spine synapses in hippocampus were examined by electron microscopy. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to analyze the expression of interleukin-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α. Western blot analysis was used to assess the expression of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathway-related proteins. The results indicated that middle-aged P2X7r KO mice displayed better emotional conditions than middle-aged WT mice. However, worse emotional conditions were observed in young-aged P2X7r KO mice. Moreover, abnormal mitochondrial structures and less spine synapses were observed in young-aged P2X7r KO mice. Mitochondrial structures were recovered and more spine synapses occurred in middle-aged P2X7r KO mice. In addition, expressions of interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, p-IKKα, p-IKKβ, p-IκBα, and p-NF-κBp65 were decreased in middle-aged P2X7r KO mice, but increased in young-aged P2X7r KO mice. In conclusion, P2X7r KO improves the emotional conditions at later stages of the lifespan of mice, but not in all ages, suggesting time-specific roles of immune response in nervous system through NF-κB signaling pathway. Video abstract: http://links.lww.com/WNR/A494.

Witnessing exemplary actions triggers admiration, a positive emotion that can pertain to concrete skills, or move the onlooker beyond physical characteristics to appreciate the abstract, moral implications. Participants reacted to narratives depicting skilled or virtuous protagonists first during a videotaped interview then during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We analyzed participants' gaze aversion (an indicator of disengaging from the immediate environment) and cognitive construals (mentions of concrete characteristics vs abstract beliefs and values) during the interview, and relations to individuals' subsequent neural activations. When participants averted their gaze, they were more likely to mention abstract construals, and both behaviors were more likely when reacting to virtue. Gaze aversion to virtue narratives predicted greater subsequent activation for those narratives in dorsal posterior cingulate cortex (dPCC), involved in visual attention control. The inferior-posterior posteromedial cortices (ipPMC), a default mode network hub involved in abstract thought, activated only to virtue, and activity level reflected individuals' tendency to abstract construals. Critically, dPCC and ipPMC activity sequentially mediated the relationship between individuals' gaze and abstract construal tendencies. No such relationships existed for reactions to skill, despite participants reporting equivalently strong positive emotion. In appreciating virtue, dPCC may support individuals in transcending the viewable context, facilitating ipPMC activity and moral construals.

In social situations facial expressions are often strategically employed. Despite the many research on motor control of limb movements, little is known about the control over facial expressions. Using a response-priming task, we investigated motor control over three facial expressions, smiles, disgust and emotionally neutral jaw drops. Prime stimuli consisted of videos of a facial expression to be prepared or - as a neutral prime - an abstract symbol superimposed to a scrambled face. In valid trials an equal symbol (=) indicated to produce the primed expression. In invalid trials, an unequal symbol (‡) prompted participants to produce an alternative, unprimed expression. We examined the impact of emotion in preparing and revoking a prepared expression, and possible facilitation for dynamic facial expressions relative to symbolic primes. Participants' facial responses were scored using automated analyses of facial expressions with computer software. The underlying neurocognitive processes were tracked with event-related-potentials. Reprogramming costs, in the form of longer reaction times (RTs) in trials where participants had prepared an invalidly primed expression and had to quickly switch to the correct one, were more pronounced for smiles and jaw drops than for disgust, possibly indicating the need for being fast when showing disgust. Data from the P3 component related the behavioral effect to a more efficient updating of the correct response in brain systems responsible for motor control. Priming participants with dynamic facial expressions as examples for imitation, improved performance accuracy as compared to the symbolic abstract stimuli, but it not did affect RTs. Priming with dynamic videos also resulted in larger validity effects of the P3 component when disgust was the target response, indicating that the perceptual system might trigger automatic emotional responses, at least for negative affect.

There is considerable heterogeneity in experiences of aging, with some experiencing greater well-being and adapting more successfully to the challenges of aging than others. Self-compassion is a modifiable psychological skill that might help explain individual differences in well-being and adjustment in later life. The aim of this study was to systematically review the literature on self-compassion and well-being outcomes in studies of older adults aged 65 and older. This systematic review was conducted according to PRISMA guidelines, using databases PsycINFO, Medline, and Embase. The search term self-compassion was paired with terms relating to well-being, psychological symptoms, and adjustment. Meta-analysis was used to synthesize results on the relationship between self-compassion and four outcomes including depression, anxiety, hedonic well-being, and eudaimonic well-being. Eleven studies met inclusion criteria for this review. Meta-analysis revealed that self-compassion was associated with lower levels of depression (r = -.58, 95% CI [-.66, -.48]) and anxiety (r = -.36, 95% CI [-.60, -.07]), and higher levels of hedonic (r = .41, 95% CI [.15, .62]) and eudaimonic (r = .49, 95% CI [.41, .57]) well-being. Further, three studies found self-compassion weakened the impact of physical symptoms on well-being outcomes. We found preliminary evidence that self-compassion is associated with well-being outcomes in older adults, and that self-compassion may buffer the psychological sequelae of health symptoms in later life. Higher quality studies with uniform outcome measures are needed to replicate and extend these results.

Anxiety during the chronic critical illness in the intensive care unit - an interpretive phenomenological study Abstract. Patients with a chronic critical illness (CCI) are persons who are dependent on life-sustaining therapies in the intensive care unit (ICU) for an extended period of time following a life-threatening, acute illness. In the ICU they are exposed to numerous physical and psychological stressors. Anxiety, one of the distressing symptoms, has received little attention. This study aims to examine anxiety in adult patients who have developed CCI while treated in an ICU to further understand this phenomenon. An interpretive phenomenological approach was taken. Using an iterative process, data from guided interviews with seven participants were analysed. The anxiety experienced by the patients with CCI fluctuated with the level of consciousness: anxiety in another reality, anxiety caused by nightmares, anxiety at first awakening and anxiety during wakeful periods. Anxiety was often accompanied by feelings of powerlessness, being lost, insecurity, helplessness and uncertainty. The results of the study suggest that health care professionals caring for patients, especially nurses, may influence anxiety experienced by patients with CCI. Nurses who are able to recognize anxiety in patients with CCI have a better chance of caring for them in a sensitive manner.

Regions of transmodal cortex, in particular the default mode network (DMN), have historically been argued to serve functions unrelated to task performance, in part because of associations with naturally occurring periods of off-task thought. In contrast, contemporary views of the DMN suggest it plays an integrative role in cognition that emerges from its location at the top of a cortical hierarchy and its relative isolation from systems directly involved in perception and action. The combination of these topographical features may allow the DMN to support abstract representations derived from lower levels in the hierarchy and so reflect the broader cognitive landscape. To investigate these contrasting views of DMN function, we sampled experience as participants performed tasks varying in their working-memory load while inside an fMRI scanner. We used self-report data to establish dimensions of thought that describe levels of detail, the relationship to a task, the modality of thought, and its emotional qualities. We used representational similarity analysis to examine correspondences between patterns of neural activity and each dimension of thought. Our results were inconsistent with a task-negative view of DMN function. Distinctions between on- and off-task thought were associated with patterns of consistent neural activity in regions adjacent to unimodal cortex, including motor and premotor cortex. Detail in ongoing thought was associated with patterns of activity within the DMN during periods of working-memory maintenance. These results demonstrate a contribution of the DMN to ongoing cognition extending beyond task-unrelated processing that can include detailed experiences occurring under active task conditions.

In two studies we tested the hypothesis that abstract thinking is linked to decision-making problems in depression. In Study 1, we compared the extent to which high dysphoric (n = 24) and low dysphoric (n = 26) individuals engaged in abstract thinking while completing a decision-making task. As predicted, high dysphoric participants demonstrated more abstract thinking and worse outcomes on decision-making measures indexed before and after they made decisions about both personal and hypothetical scenarios. In Study 2, we tested the prediction that abstract thinking leads to worse decision-making outcomes relative to concrete thinking. Participants were randomly allocated to engage in either abstract (n = 43) or concrete (n = 44) thinking, and then given an online writing task and encouraged to complete it as early as possible within a 9-day timeframe. Depressive symptoms were associated with longer task completion time in the abstract condition; no such relationship was observed in the concrete condition. Our findings have the potential to inform the clinical management of depression by demonstrating that abstract thinking could contribute to decision-making difficulties in depression, and raise the possibility that facilitating the use of concrete thinking may reduce these difficulties.

Worry is a verbal and abstract thought activity with only little mental imagery involved. It has been shown that this processing bias leads to hampered emotional processing of worry topics so that worry is maintained in the long run. However, there is some evidence that mental imagery during worrying has the opposite effect: It leads to stronger emotional reactions than verbal thoughts and thereby fosters emotional processing of worry topics. In the present study, we examined whether training mental imagery reduces pathological worry. We compared the effect of a novel training in mental imagery (TMI; n = 37) on various worry-related outcomes to a control training in verbal thinking (TVT; n = 38) and a waiting-list control group (n = 36) in a sample of pathologically high worriers. Both trainings showed significant within-group decline regarding e.g. pathological worry activity, worry-related impairment and anxiety assessed both one and five weeks after the training. Cohen's d on different outcome measures ranged from .39 to 1.17. However, unexpectedly, there were no significant differences between groups on any worry- or affect-related outcome measures. In, sum our training in general mental imagery skills turned out to be a promising intervention for the reduction of pathological worry. However, we found a training in verbal thinking to also have unexpected beneficial effects. The theoretical and clinical implications of these findings and methodological limitations of our study are discussed.

No abstract available.

Reports an error in "Determining optimal parameters of the self-referent encoding task: A large-scale examination of self-referent cognition and depression" by Justin Dainer-Best, Hae Yeon Lee, Jason D. Shumake, David S. Yeager and Christopher G. Beevers (

Emotions are signaled by complex arrays of face and body actions. The main point of contention in contemporary treatments is whether these arrays are discrete, holistic constellations reflecting emotion categories, or whether they are compositional-comprised of smaller components, each of which contributes some aspect of emotion to the complex whole. We address this question by investigating spontaneous face and body displays of athletes and place it in the wider context of human communicative signals and, in particular, of language. A defining property of human language is compositionality-the ability to combine and recombine a relatively small number of elements to create a vast number of complex meaningful expressions, and to interpret them. We ask whether this property of language can be discerned in a more ancient communicative system: intense emotional displays. In an experiment, participants interpreted a range of emotions and their strengths in pictures of athletes who had just won or lost a competition. By matching participants' judgements with minutely coded features of face and body, we find evidence for compositionality. The distribution of participants' responses indicates that most of the athletes' face and body features contribute to displays of dominance or submission. More particular emotional components related, for example, to positive valence (e.g. happy) or goal obstruction (e.g. frustrated), were also found to significantly correlate with certain face and body features. We propose that the combination of features linked to broader components (i.e, dominant or submissive) and to more particular emotions (e.g, happy or frustrated) reflects more complex emotional states. In sum, we find that the corporeal expression of intense, unfiltered emotion has compositional properties, potentially providing an ancient scaffolding upon which, millions of years later, the abstract and constrained compositional system of human language could build.

Stillbirth has a profound impact on women, families, and healthcare workers. The burden is highest in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). There is need for respectful and supportive care for women, partners, and families after bereavement. To perform a qualitative meta-summary of parents' and healthcare professionals' experiences of care after stillbirth in LMICs. Search terms were formulated by identifying all synonyms, thesaurus terms, and variations for stillbirth. Databases searched were AMED, EMBASE, MEDLINE, PsychINFO, BNI, CINAHL. Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed method studies that addressed parents' or healthcare professionals' experience of care after stillbirth in LMICs. Studies were screened, and data extracted in duplicate. Data were analysed using the Sandelowski meta-summary technique that calculates frequency and intensity effect sizes (FES/IES). In all, 118 full texts were screened, and 34 studies from 17 countries were included. FES range was 15-68%. Most studies had IES 1.5-4.5. Women experience a broad range of manifestations of grief following stillbirth, which may not be recognised by healthcare workers or in their communities. Lack of recognition exacerbates negative experiences of stigmatisation, blame, devaluation, and loss of social status. Adequately developed health systems, with trained and supported staff, are best equipped to provide the support and information that women want after stillbirth. Basic interventions could have an immediate impact on the experiences of women and their families after stillbirth. Examples include public education to reduce stigma, promoting the respectful maternity care agenda, and investigating stillbirth appropriately. Reducing stigma, promoting respectful care and investigating stillbirth have a positive impact after stillbirth for women and families in LMICs.

Prior research indicates that cognitive vulnerabilities can render individuals more susceptible to psychopathology in the wake of stressful events. However, little work has directly targeted the neural mechanisms involved. In this study, we examined functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activity as a function of negative cognitive style, a well-studied cognitive vulnerability for depression. We adapted a robust paradigm in which undergraduate students completed fMRI testing after a known ecologically valid stressor (a midterm exam). Negative cognitive style correlated with brain activity in response to both negative and exam-related information in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and/or angular gyrus, both regions involved in abstract, self-referential thought. There were commonalities and differences in patterns of activity, suggesting that these individuals may process domain-general and domain-specific negative information in different ways but drawing upon a common frontoparietal network. This study, thus, identifies a potential brain network associated with negative cognitive style, and enhances our understanding of neural mechanisms of cognitive vulnerability to psychopathology. (PsycINFO Database Record

Emphatic doctor-patient communication has been associated with improved psycho-physiological well-being involving cardiovascular and neuroendocrine responses. Nevertheless, a comprehensive assessment of heartbeat linear and nonlinear dynamics throughout the communication of a life-threatening disease has not been performed yet. To this extent, we studied linear heartbeat dynamics through the extraction of time-frequency domain measurements, as well as heartbeat nonlinear and complex dynamics through novel approaches to compute multi-scale and multi-lag series analyses: namely, the multi-scale distribution entropy and lagged Poincaré plot symbolic analysis. Heart rate variability series were recorded from 54 healthy female subjects who were blind to the aim of the experiment. Participants were randomly assigned into two groups: 27 subjects watched a video where an oncologist discloses the diagnosis of a cancer metastasis to a patient, whereas the remaining 27 watched the same video including four additional supportive comments by the clinician. Considering differences between the beginning and the end of each communication video, results from non-parametric Wilcoxon tests demonstrated that, at a group level, significant differences occurred in heartbeat linear and nonlinear dynamics, with lower complexity during nonsupportive communication. Furthermore, a support vector machine algorithm, validated using a leave-one-subject-out procedure, was able to discern the supportive experience at a single-subject level with an accuracy of 83.33% when nonlinear features were considered, dropping to 51.85% when using standard HRV features only. In conclusion, heartbeat nonlinear and complex dynamics can be a viable tool for the psycho-physiological evaluation of supportive doctor-patient communication. Graphical Abstract Scheme of the three main stages of the study: signal acquisition during doctor-patient communication, ECG signal processing and pattern recognition results.

Depression is common among patients with axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA), but reports of its prevalence are highly variable. We performed a systematic review to (i) describe the prevalence of depression in axSpA, (ii) compare its prevalence between axSpA, ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and non-radiographic axSpA (nr-axSpA) cohorts, and (iii) compare disease activity and functional impairment between those with and without depression. We searched Medline, PubMed, Web of Science, PsycINFO, CINAHL Plus, the Cochrane library and conference abstracts of the European League Against Rheumatism, British Society for Rheumatology and American College of Rheumatology using a predefined protocol in accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Meta-analysis was performed using quality-effects model. Fifteen original articles and one abstract were included for analysis; 14 studies described AS cohorts and two nr-axSpA. Three screening criteria and one diagnostic criterion were used to define depression. Prevalence ranged from 11 to 64% depending on criteria and thresholds used. Pooled prevalence of at least moderate depression was 15% using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) threshold of ≥ 11. The prevalence of depression was similar between axSpA, AS and nr-axSpA cohorts. Patients with depression had significantly worse disease activity, including higher BASDAI by 1.4 units (95% CI 1.0 to 1.9), ASDAS by 0.5 units (95% CI 0.3 to 0.7) and ESR by 3.5 mm/h (95% CI 0.6 to 6.4). They also had greater functional impairment with higher BASFI and BASMI by 1.2 units (95% CI 0.6 to 1.8) and 0.6 units (95% CI 0.3 to 0.8), respectively. Mean age of each study cohort inversely correlated with depression prevalence. Depression is common among axSpA patients and is associated with more severe disease activity and functional impairment. Identifying and managing depression should form part of their holistic care. Further longitudinal studies are needed to explore the impact of depression on treatment outcomes and axSpA treatment on symptoms of depression.

rumination is characteristic of depressed individuals, as is the tendency to experience post-decisional regret. We conducted two studies to test whether (i) abstract rumination is associated with post-decisional regret, and (ii) inducing the converse style of thinking, namely concrete rumination, would reduce post-decisional regret. In Study 1, participants identified a personally important decision that they regretted having made in the past 6 months, were instructed to think in either an abstract (n = 29) or concrete (n = 29) way about their decision, then rated the extent to which they regretted the decision. Participants in the abstract condition reported more regret than did participants in the concrete condition. Employing the same methodology used in Study 1, we replicated this finding in Study 2 (abstract condition: n = 34; concrete condition: n = 36). In both studies we additionally tested the prediction that abstract rumination leads to more counterfactual thoughts than concrete rumination. Neither study yielded evidence to support this hypothesis. Overall, the current research indicates that abstract rumination could play an important role in contributing to post-decisional regret and raises the clinical possibility that encouraging depressed individuals to engage in concrete rumination might alleviate post-decisional regret.

To test the hypothesis that patient-initiated follow up reduces the fear of cancer recurrence (FCR) and healthcare use when compared with traditional hospital-based follow up. Pragmatic, multicentre randomised trial. Four Danish departments of gynaecology between May 2013 and May 2016. One hundred and fifty-six women diagnosed with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage I low-intermediate risk endometrial carcinoma. Women allocated to the control group attended hospital-based follow up consisting of regular outpatient visits for 3 years after primary treatment. Women in the intervention group were instructed in patient-initiated follow up, which included careful instruction in alarm symptoms and options for self-referral rather than a schedule of examinations. The primary end point was FCR as measured by the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI) after 10 months of follow up. Secondary end points included cancer-related use of primary and secondary health care during the first 10 months after treatment. In the primary analysis, FCR decreased significantly more in the control group from baseline to 10 months of follow up (difference -5.9, 95% CI -10.9 to -0.9). The majority of this improvement happened after only 3 months of follow up. Women receiving the intervention had fewer examinations at the department compared with the control group (0 versus 2 median visits, P < 0.01) and 58% of these examinations were scheduled because of vaginal bleeding. Hospital-based follow up alleviates FCR significantly more than patient-initiated follow up, though the estimated difference was small. Patient-initiated follow up is a feasible, potentially cost-reducing follow-up approach in a population of endometrial cancer survivors with low risk of recurrence. The decision to use patient-initiated follow up should balance these benefits and harms. Patient-initiated follow up reduces healthcare use but maintains fear of recurrence in endometrial cancer. Why and how was the study carried out? Follow up of women with endometrial cancer is resource consuming and previous research suggests that it is not effective. Even though the women benefit from reassurance at follow up, routine examinations may also remind the women of the disease and induce fear of cancer recurrence. Furthermore, routine follow up may delay recurrence diagnosis, because the women do not report their symptoms until the next scheduled visit. In the research explained in this article, patient-initiated follow up was evaluated as an alternative to traditional follow up. The women were randomly assigned to one of two follow-up programmes: regular gynaecological examinations at the department of gynaecology or self-referral with careful instruction in alarm symptoms, that is, patient-initiated follow up. The level of fear of cancer recurrence in the two groups was obtained by questionnaires. Information on healthcare use was obtained by questionnaires and a chart review. What were the main findings? Regular examinations at the department of gynaecology reduced the fear of cancer recurrence significantly more than patient-initiated follow up, though the difference was small. Women who were instructed in alarm symptoms, under self-referral, were able to monitor their symptoms, and this approach significantly reduced the number of examinations at the department of gynaecology. What are the limitations of the work? Participants in the self-referral group knew that they were examined less than other women, and this may have induced fear of cancer recurrence. Similarly, the regular completion of questionnaires regarding fear of cancer recurrence may have reminded the women of the disease and diminished the difference between the two groups. What are the implications for patients Patient-initiated follow up reduced healthcare use but maintained fear of cancer recurrence in women who had survived early-stage endometrial cancer. Future analyses on quality of life and cost-effectiveness are needed to balance the benefits and harms of patient-initiated follow up.

Repetitive thought may have adaptive and functional consequences, depending on, among other things, the interpretation of the content: analytical or abstract (general and decontextualized) and experiential or concrete (specific, contextual and incidental). Studies experimentally manipulating repetitive thought have shown both the constructive consequences of the experiential mode and the dysfunctional consequences of the analytical mode. The aim of the current study is to observe the effect of analytical and experiential rumination of negative self-defining memories on schizotypic symptoms. A sample of 111 university students were randomly assigned to one of the two experimental conditions of induced rumination, "analytical" or "experimental." The participants completed a series of questionnaires (anomalous perception of reality, preoccupation and depression) and a negative self-defining memory was obtained to be used as the content of the induced rumination. Following the rumination induction, participants in the experiential condition significantly decreased their scores on anomalous perception of reality compared with those in the analytical condition. We also observed that post-induction scores on self-reported sadness significantly increased in both experimental conditions while scores on self-reported happiness decreased. Our results show that the concrete/experiential rumination, focused here on negative self-defining memories, have positive consequences on schizotypic symptoms, such as decreased anomalous perception of reality.

Exacerbations are common during the course of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and contribute to its morbidity and mortality. COPD is also associated with high prevalence of anxiety and depression. A systematic literature review of data on the association between anxiety and/or depression and COPD exacerbations. Medline search, for the 1980-2017 period, with the following keywords: "chronic obstructive pulmonary disease" or "COPD" and "exacerbation" and "anxiety" or "depression"; limits: "title/abstract"; the selected languages were English or French. Among 152 articles, 77 abstracts have been preselected for a dual reading and 30 studies have been finally selected. The prevalence of anxiety and depression ranged from 6.7 to 58% and 5.5 to 51.5%, respectively. Among the 30 studies included in this review, 19 (63.3%) revealed positive associations between anxiety and/or depression and increased risk for exacerbations, although 11 (36.7%) failed to support such an association. The association between anxiety and/or depression and an increased risk of COPD exacerbations was more frequently observed in studies using an event-based definition (85.7%) than in those using a symptom-based definition (14.3%). The main limitation of this review is the high heterogeneity of the studies included. Another limitation is the low rate of women included in this review (32.6%). Anxiety and/or depression are associated with a greater risk for exacerbations to occur in COPD. However, a high heterogeneity across the published studies makes it difficult to draw any firm conclusions on the amplitude of this increased risk.

Conceptual representations are perceptually grounded, but when investigating which perceptual modalities are involved, researchers have typically restricted their consideration to vision, touch, hearing, taste and smell. However, there is another major modality of perceptual information that is distinct from these traditional five senses; that is, interoception, or sensations inside the body. In this paper, we use megastudy data (modality-specific ratings of perceptual strength for over 32 000 words) to explore how interoceptive information contributes to the perceptual grounding of abstract and concrete concepts. We report how interoceptive strength captures a distinct form of perceptual experience across the abstract-concrete spectrum, but is markedly more important to abstract concepts (e.g. 

Evaluative concepts qualify as abstract because they seem to go beyond what is given in experience. This is especially clear in the case of moral concepts. Justice, for example, has no fixed appearance. Less obviously, aesthetic concepts may also qualify as abstract. The very same sensory input can be regarded as beautiful by one person and ugly by another. Artistic success can also transcend sensory accessible features. Here, we focus on moral badness and aesthetic goodness and argue that both can be grounded in emotional responses. Emotions, in turn, are grounded in bodily perceptions, which correspond to action tendencies. When we conceptualize something as good or bad (whether in the moral or aesthetic domain), we experience our bodily responses to that thing. The moral and aesthetic domains are distinguished by the emotions that they involve.This article is part of the theme issue 'Varieties of abstract concepts: development, use and representation in the brain'.

Different regions of the human cerebral cortex are specialized for different emotions, but the principles underlying this specialization have remained unknown. According to the 

A growing body of evidence suggests that cognition is embodied and grounded. Abstract concepts, though, remain a significant theoretical challenge. A number of researchers have proposed that language makes an important contribution to our capacity to acquire and employ concepts, particularly abstract ones. In this essay, I critically examine this suggestion and ultimately defend a version of it. I argue that a successful account of how language augments cognition should emphasize its symbolic properties and incorporate a view of embodiment that recognizes the flexible, multimodal and task-related nature of action, emotion and perception systems. On this view, language is an ontogenetically disruptive cognitive technology that expands our conceptual reach.This article is part of the theme issue 'Varieties of abstract concepts: development, use and representation in the brain'.

Emotion concepts are important. They help us to understand, experience and predict human behaviour. Emotion concepts also link the realm of the abstract with the realm of bodily experience and actions. Accordingly, the key question is how such concepts are created, represented and used. Embodied cognition theories hold that concepts are grounded in neural systems that produce experiential and motor states. Concepts are also contextually situated and thus engage sensorimotor resources in a dynamic, flexible way. Finally, on that framework, conceptual understanding unfolds in time, reflecting embodied as well as linguistic and cultural influences. In this article, we review empirical work on emotion concepts and show how it highlights their grounded, yet dynamic and context-sensitive nature. The conclusions are consistent with recent developments in embodied cognition that allow concepts to be linked to sensorimotor systems, yet be flexibly sensitive to current representational and action needs.This article is part of the theme issue 'Varieties of abstract concepts: development, use and representation in the brain'.

concepts play a central role in human behaviour and constitute a critical component of the human conceptual system. Here, we investigate the neural basis of four types of abstract concepts, examining their similarities and differences through neuroimaging meta-analyses. We examine numerical and emotional concepts, and two higher-order abstract processes, morality judgements and theory of mind. Three main findings emerge. First, representation of abstract concepts is more widespread than is often assumed. Second, representations of different types of abstract concepts differ in important respects. Each of the domains examined here was associated with some unique areas. Third, some areas were commonly activated across domains and included inferior parietal, posterior cingulate and medial prefrontal cortex. We interpret these regions in terms of their role in episodic recall, event representation and social-emotional processing. We suggest that different types of abstract concepts can be represented and grounded through differing contributions from event-based, interoceptive, introspective and sensory-motor representations. The results underscore the richness and diversity of abstract concepts, argue against single-mechanism accounts for representation of all types of abstract concepts and suggest mechanisms for their direct and indirect grounding.This article is part of the theme issue 'Varieties of abstract concepts: development, use and representation in the brain'.

The aim of this study was to design a system to diagnose chronic stress, based on blunted reactivity of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) to cognitive load (CL). The system concurrently measures CL-induced variations in pupil diameter (PD), heart rate (HR), pulse wave amplitude (PWA), galvanic skin response (GSR), and breathing rate (BR). Measurements were recorded from 58 volunteers whose stress level was identified using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. Number-multiplication questions were used as CLs. HR, PWA, GSR, and PD were significantly (p < 0.05) changed during CL. CL-induced changes in PWA (16.87 ± 21.39), GSR (- 13.71 ± 7.86), and PD (11.56 ± 9.85) for non-stressed subjects (n = 36) were significantly different (p < 0.05) from those in PWA (2.92 ± 12.89), GSR (- 6.87 ± 9.54), and PD (4.51 ± 10.94) for stressed subjects (n = 22). ROC analysis for PWA, GSR, and PD illustrated their usefulness to identify stressed subjects. By inputting all features to different classification algorithms, up to 91.7% of sensitivity and 89.7% of accuracy to identify stressed subjects were achieved using 10-fold cross-validation. This study was the first to document blunted CL-induced changes in PWA, GSR, and PD in stressed subjects, compared to those in non-stressed subjects. Preliminary results demonstrated the ability of our system to objectively detect chronic stress with good accuracy, suggesting the potential for monitoring stress to prevent dangerous stress-related diseases. Graphical abstract Chronic stress degrads the autonomic nervous system reaction to cognitive loads. Measurement of reduced changes in physiological signals during asking math questions was useful to identify people with high STAI score (stressed subjects).

A human variant in the BDNF gene (Val66Met; rs6265) is associated with impaired fear extinction. Using super-resolution imaging, we demonstrate that the BDNF Met prodomain disassembles dendritic spines and eliminates synapses in hippocampal neurons. In vivo, ventral CA1 (vCA1) hippocampal neurons undergo similar morphological changes dependent on their transient co-expression of a SorCS2/p75

Negative Symptoms in Schizophrenia - an Overview Abstract. Negative symptoms in schizophrenia comprise the symptom-dimensions of apathy (avolition, anhedonia and social withdrawal) and reduced expression (alogia and blunted affect). Negative symptoms are of a high relevance for the illness course, since they strongly affect functional outcome and quality of life. A diagnostic differentiation is recommended in primary negative symptoms (regarded as an integral part of schizophrenia) and secondary negative symptoms (regarded as a result of positive symptoms, comorbid depression, effects of antipsychotic medication, substance abuse or social deprivation). The following overview will present the various aspects of negative symptoms, the underlying pathophysiology and describe current diagnostic and therapeutic recommendations based on the concept of primary and secondary negative symptoms.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported online in 

CME: Fear of Flying and Flying Phobia Abstract. Fear of flying and flying phobia are very common in the general population and can lead to substantial distress. Symptoms and diagnosis of fear of flying and flying phobia will be described. Severe fear of flying can be diagnosed as specific phobia or alternatively as agoraphobia. Cognitive behavioral therapy with exposure in vivo has been shown to be the most effective treatment. The treatment with benzodiazepines is the main priority for the general practitioner and will be subsequently discussed. The treatment of flying phobia and agoraphobia will be described based on two examples.

Trait anxiety has been widely accepted as a vulnerability factor for the development of anxiety disorders. However, few studies have examined how trait anxiety may affect fear generalisation, which is believed to be a core feature of anxiety disorders. Using a single-cue conditioning paradigm, the current study found a range of discrete generalisation gradients in both expectancy ratings and skin conductance, which were highly consistent with participants' reported abstract rules. Trait anxious participants showed the same level of threat expectancy to the conditioned cue as low anxious participants. However they showed over-generalisation to novel test stimuli, but only when they failed to identify a clear rule. This result suggests that over-generalisation of fear may be a special case of the more general principle that trait anxiety is associated with excessive threat appraisal under conditions of ambiguity.

Licofelone, a dual cyclooxygenase/5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, possesses antioxidant, antiapoptotic, neuroprotective, and anti-inflammatory properties. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of licofelone on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depression in a mouse model and also a possible role for nitric oxide (NO). To elucidate the role of NO on this effect of licofelone (5 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.), L-NAME, a non-specific NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor; aminoguanidine (AG), a specific inducible NOS (iNOS) inhibitor; 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) a preferential neuronal NOS inhibitor (nNOS) and; L-arginine (L-Arg), as a NO donor, were used. The animal's behaviors were evaluated employing forced swimming test (FST), tail suspension test (TST) and open field test (OFT). LPS (0.83 mg/kg, i.p.) induced depressive-like behavior increasing immobility time in FST and TST. Conversely, licofelone (20 mg/kg i.p.) reversed the depressive effect of LPS and lowered the immobility time in FST and TST. On the other hand, pretreatment with L-Arg also reversed the antidepressant-like effect of licofelone (20 mg/kg) in FST and TST. On the other hand, L-NAME (10 and 30 mg/kg), AG (50 and 100 mg/kg) and 7-NI (60 mg/kg) could potentiate licofelone (5 mg/kg) and lowered the immobility duration. NO down-regulation possibly through iNOS and nNOS inhibition may involve in the antidepressant property of licofelone. This article is open to POST-PUBLICATION REVIEW. Registered readers (see "For Readers") may comment by clicking on ABSTRACT on the issue's contents page.

Apathy is frequently reported in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) and is hypothesized to be associated with frontal-striatal related cognitive functions. Available data, however, do not provide univocal results. Moreover, this relationship has been poorly investigated in PD patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). This study was aimed at investigating the association between severity of apathy of PD patients and their performance on neuropsychological tests investigating executive abilities. Individuals with PD (i.e., with and without MCI) and healthy controls (HCs) were administered a neuropsychological test battery that investigated episodic memory, language, short-term memory and attention, visual-spatial abilities and executive functions. Subjects were also administered additional neuropsychological tests to evaluate the different executive subcomponents (i.e., planning/abstract reasoning, self-monitoring/response inhibition, working memory, shifting and fluency). The Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES) was administered to assess apathy severity. Linear regression analyses were applied to the data; results showed that in the PD group with MCI, the best cognitive factor associated to the AES score was patients' scores on the executive tests and, in particular, their scores on tests examining planning/abstract reasoning. By contrast, in the PD group without MCI, the cognitive performance was not significantly associated to apathy severity. Findings of the study document a specific association between reduced efficiency of the executive system and apathy severity in individuals with PD and MCI. This association indirectly supports the hypothesis of a relationship between motivational disorders and dysregulation of the activity of the frontal-striatal networks in PD patients.

A small percentage of healthy individuals do not find music pleasurable, a condition known as specific musical anhedonia. These individuals have no impairment in music perception which might account for their anhedonia; their sensitivity to primary and secondary rewards is also preserved, and they do not show generalized depression. However, it is still unclear whether this condition is entirely specific to music, or rather reflects a more general deficit in experiencing pleasure, either from aesthetic rewards in general, or in response to other types of emotional sounds. The aim of this study is to determine whether individuals with specific musical anhedonia also show blunted emotional responses from other aesthetic rewards or emotional acoustic stimuli different than music. In two tasks designed to assess sensitivity to visual art and emotional sounds, we tested 13 individuals previously identified as specific musical anhedonics, together with two more groups with average (musical hedonic, HDN) and high (musical hyperhedonics, HHDN) sensitivity to experience reward from music. Differences among groups in skin conductance response and behavioral measures in response to pleasantness were analyzed in both tasks. Notably, specific musical anhedonics showed similar hedonic reactions, both behaviorally and physiologically, as the HDN control group in both tasks. These findings suggest that music hedonic sensitivity might be distinct from other human abstract reward processing and from an individual's ability to experience emotion from emotional sounds. The present results highlight the possible existence of specific neural pathways involved in the capacity to experience reward in music-related activities.

Nowadays, works of art can be enjoyed in both their original and reproduced format. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the format of a work of art could influence physiological and cognitive responses in beholders. Two abstract works of art and their digital reproductions were selected as experimental stimuli and displayed for 2min to 60 participants in a museum. HRV, HR, and RMSSD were recorded, while participants observed the works of art. Subsequently, participants provided behavioral ratings of color intensity, emotional intensity, aesthetic evaluation, perceived movement, and desire to touch the works of art. Results demonstrated that the faithful high-quality digital reproduction of works of art could be as arousing as the original works of art, but at the same time, they cannot replace the experience of standing in front of an authentic work of art in terms of explicit hedonic attributed values. Furthermore, specific interactions between individual inclinations to identify with fictional characters and acquired art competences in the context of aesthetic experience were found.

processing and observer vantage perspective have been associated with negative consequences in depression. We investigated the relationship between mode of processing and vantage perspective bidirectionally in high and low dysphoric individuals, using abstract and concrete descriptions of experimenter-provided everyday actions. When vantage perspective was manipulated and processing mode was measured (Study 1a), participants who adopted a field perspective did not differ from those who adopted an observer perspective in their preference for abstract descriptions, irrespective of dysphoria status. When processing mode was manipulated and vantage perspective was measured (Study 1b), participants provided with abstract descriptions had a greater tendency to adopt an observer perspective than those provided with concrete descriptions, irrespective of dysphoria status. These results were replicated in larger online samples (Studies 2a and 2b). Together, they indicate a unidirectional causal relationship, whereby processing mode causally influences vantage perspective, in contrast to the bidirectional relationship previously reported in an unselected sample (Libby, Shaeffer, & Eibach, 2009). Further, these findings demonstrate that abstract processing increases the likelihood of adopting an observer perspective, and support targeting abstract processing in the treatment of depression to address the negative consequences associated with both abstract processing and recalling/imagining events from an observer perspective. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

Observational learning is a powerful survival tool allowing individuals to learn about threat-predictive stimuli without directly experiencing the pairing of the predictive cue and punishment. This ability has been linked to the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the basolateral amygdala (BLA). To investigate how information is encoded and transmitted through this circuit, we performed electrophysiological recordings in mice observing a demonstrator mouse undergo associative fear conditioning and found that BLA-projecting ACC (ACC→BLA) neurons preferentially encode socially derived aversive cue information. Inhibition of ACC→BLA alters real-time amygdala representation of the aversive cue during observational conditioning. Selective inhibition of the ACC→BLA projection impaired acquisition, but not expression, of observational fear conditioning. We show that information derived from observation about the aversive value of the cue is transmitted from the ACC to the BLA and that this routing of information is critically instructive for observational fear conditioning. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Ketamine has been used as a safe and effective sedative to treat adults and children exhibiting high levels of anxiety or fear during dental treatment. Pediatric dentistry often involves patients with high levels of anxiety and fear and possibly few positive dental experiences. Patient management can involve behavioral approaches, as well as the use of sedation or general anesthesia with a variety of agents, including midazolam, diazepam, hydroxyzine, meperidine, and ketamine. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical efficacy of ketamine use in pediatric sedation dentistry through systematic review and analysis. A systematic review of publications between 1990 and 2015 was conducted using PubMed and MEDLINE databases maintained by the US National Library of Medicine and the National Institutes of Health. The keywords used were (ketamine) AND (dental OR dentistry) AND (sedation). The abstract and title of all potential publications were then screened for clinical trials and to remove non-English articles, non-human or animal trials, and other non-dental or non-relevant studies. A total of 1,657 citations were initially identified, reviewed, and screened, eventually resulting in inclusion of 25 clinical trials in this systematic review. Nineteen studies evaluated ketamine effects in pediatric dental sedation using oral (non-invasive) administration, three involved subcutaneous or intramuscular injection, and three were completed intravenously. Evidence analysis of these trials revealed the majority (n = 22/25) provided strong, positive evidence for the use of ketamine (alone or in combination) to reduce dental anxiety and behavioral non-compliance with the remainder suggesting equivocal results. Additional endpoints evaluated in some studies involved dosage, as well as time to achieve sedation effect. The use of ketamine (alone or in combination) can provide safe, effective, and timely sedation in pediatric patients regardless of the route of administration.

Children and young people (CYP) with cancer undergo painful and distressing procedures. We aimed to systematically review the effectiveness of nonpharmacological interventions to reduce procedural anxiety in CYP. Extensive literature searches sought randomised controlled trials that quantified the effect of any nonpharmacological intervention for procedural anxiety in CYP with cancer aged 0 to 25. Study selection involved independent title and abstract screening and full text screening by two reviewers. Anxiety, distress, fear, and pain outcomes were extracted from included studies. Where similar intervention, comparator, and outcomes presented, meta-analysis was performed, producing pooled effect sizes (Cohen's d) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). All other data were narratively described. Quality and risk of bias appraisal was performed, based on the Cochrane risk of bias tool. Screening of 11 727 records yielded 56 relevant full texts. There were 15 included studies, eight trialling hypnosis, and seven nonhypnosis interventions. There were large, statistically significant reductions in anxiety and pain for hypnosis, particularly compared with treatment as usual (anxiety: d = 2.30; 95% CI, 1.30-3.30; P < .001; pain: d = 2.16; 95% CI, 1.41-2.92; P < .001). Evidence from nonhypnosis interventions was equivocal, with some promising individual studies. There was high risk of bias across included studies limiting confidence in some positive effects. Evidence suggests promise for hypnosis interventions to reduce procedural anxiety in CYP undergoing cancer treatment. These results largely emerge from one research group, therefore wider research is required. Promising evidence for individual nonhypnosis interventions must be evaluated through rigorously conducted randomised controlled trials.

: media-1vid110.1542/5741323271001PEDS-VA_2017-3651 Between May 2013 and July 2016, we assessed 49 SIDS-bereaved mothers living in informal settlements near Cape Town, South Africa, and on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation and 359 SIDS-bereaved mothers affiliated with SIDS parent-support organizations in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and the Netherlands. We examined PGD symptom severity and diagnostic prevalence rates between the samples and other significant grief indicators during the period 2 to 48 months after the deaths of their infants. Extremely high, persistent, and similar rates of PGD were found in both samples at every time interval. The prevalence of PGD was 50.0% in either sample (mean months from loss: 20.5 vs 24.9). Daily, intrusive emotional pain or yearning was found in 68.1% of subjects; yearning was significantly associated with emotional pain ( Severe symptoms and heightened risk for PGD was seen in mothers after their infants died of SIDS, with discernible symptom profiles. Given their involvement with families after SIDS, pediatricians may have a unique role in identifying this problem and helping address its consequences.

Nowadays cognitive impairments are a growing unresolved medical issue which may accompany many diseases and therapies, furthermore, numerous researchers investigate various neurobiological aspects of human memory to find possible ways to improve it. Until any other method is discovered, in vivo studies remain the only available tool for memory evaluation. At first, researchers need to choose a model of amnesia which may strongly influence observed results. Thereby a deeper insight into a model itself may increase the quality and reliability of results. The most common method to impair memory in rodents is the pretreatment with drugs that disrupt learning and memory. Taking this into consideration, we compared the activity of agents commonly used for this purpose. We investigated effects of phencyclidine (PCP), a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, and scopolamine (SCOP), an antagonist of muscarinic receptors, on short-term spatial memory and classical fear conditioning in mice. PCP (3 mg/kg) and SCOP (1 mg/kg) were administrated intraperitoneally 30 min before behavioral paradigms. To assess the influence of PCP and SCOP on short-term spatial memory, the Barnes maze test in C57BL/J6 mice was used. Effects on classical conditioning were evaluated using contextual fear conditioning test. Additionally, spontaneous locomotor activity of mice was measured. These two tests were performed in CD-1 mice. Our study reports that both tested agents disturbed short-term spatial memory in the Barnes maze test, however, SCOP revealed a higher activity. Surprisingly, learning in contextual fear conditioning test was impaired only by SCOP. Graphical Abstract ᅟ.

Empirical evidence has recently been provided for the distinctiveness of emotion words as compared to abstract and concrete words for monolinguals, calling for a reconsideration of the relation between emotion and language. The present study investigates whether the distinctiveness of emotion words among monolinguals holds for foreign language learners. To this end, three groups (n = 120 per group) of late Arabic-English bilinguals who learned English as a foreign language completed tasks including free recall, rating, and discrete word association. One group completed the tasks in Arabic while the other two groups, representing two levels of foreign language exposure, completed the tasks in English. Planned comparisons indicated the distinctiveness of emotion words in the participants' first and foreign languages in the free recall and rating tasks while no significant differences were found in the word association task. The results are discussed in light of the existing literature and relevant theoretical models.

Recent psycholinguistic and neuroscientific research has emphasized the crucial role of emotions for abstract words, which would be grounded by affective experience, instead of a sensorimotor one. The hypothesis of affective embodiment has been proposed as an alternative to the idea that abstract words are linguistically coded and that linguistic processing plays a key role in their acquisition and processing. In this paper, we use distributional semantic models to explore the complex interplay between linguistic and affective information in the representation of abstract words. Distributional analyses on Italian norming data show that abstract words have more affective content and tend to co-occur with contexts with higher emotive values, according to affective statistical indices estimated in terms of distributional similarity with a restricted number of seed words strongly associated with a set of basic emotions. Therefore, the strong affective content of abstract words might just be an indirect byproduct of co-occurrence statistics. This is consistent with a version of representational pluralism in which concepts that are fully embodied either at the sensorimotor or at the affective level live side-by-side with concepts only indirectly embodied via their linguistic associations with other embodied words.

Among adults, depressive symptoms are associated with higher rates of cardiovascular disease; however, the evidence is mixed regarding the association between depressive symptoms and hypertension, especially among young adults. The deleterious effects of some antidepressant medications on blood pressure may contribute to mixed findings. Adolescents enrolled in Add Health (N = 11,183) (1994-2008) completed an abbreviated Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale at three waves (mean ages, 16, 22, and 29). Antidepressant use was measured at age 22 and at age 29. Hypertension at age 29 was defined as measured systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg or greater, diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or greater, or staff-inventoried anti-hypertensive medication use. The prevalence of hypertension at age 29 was 20%. High depressive symptoms in adolescence or young adulthood were not associated with hypertension in young adulthood. Antidepressant use at age 29 was associated with increased prevalence of hypertension (prevalence ratio [PR], 1.4; 95% CI, 1.2, 1.7) and an interaction with sex was observed (PRMen, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.2, 2.0; PRWomen, 1.2; 95% CI, 0.89, 1.6; pinteraction = 0.0227). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and non-selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressant use were associated with hypertension (PRSSRI, 1.3; 95% CI, 1.0, 1.6; PRnon-SSRI, 1.6; 95% CI, 1.2, 2.1). In this sample, antidepressant use, but not depressive symptoms, was associated with hypertension in young adulthood. Further research is recommended to examine joint and independent relationships between depression and antidepressant use and hypertension among young adults. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B355.

Dental treatment can cause symptoms such as fear and anxiety. Audiovisual distraction (AD) is a simple and low-cost technique that does not interfere with the dental treatment. The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the effectiveness of AD methods for children who experience anxiety during dental treatment. Two reviewers performed a database search of the studies published between January 1950 and November 2015. The inclusion criteria were papers published in the English language, child samples aged 4-10 years, and use of AD. All potentially relevant studies were identified by the title and the abstract. After the full-text analysis of the potentially relevant studies, the selected studies were included in the systematic review. A meta-analysis calculation was performed for the overall data and the subgroup data. Thirty-seven nonduplicated studies were found. However, after reviewing the articles, only five were included. A high variability was observed among the papers. Tools and questionnaires used to measure the anxiety during dental treatment presented the most common variability. Meta-analysis demonstrated a lower anxiety level in AD method groups when Modified Child Dental Anxiety Scale was used (P = 0.02) with a mean difference (confidence interval) of -8.72 (-16.7, -1.38). The AD method is effective for controlling dental anxiety in children.

providing appropriate care for pregnant women with high or severe fear of childbirth (FOC) is a challenge in midwifery care today. FOC is associated with predisposing anamnestic factors, various sociodemographic and psychosocial characteristics, and may result in serious healthrelated consequences. It is therefore important to establish which interventions may increase a woman's faith in her own ability to cope with labour and birth. to systematically identify and review studies examining interventions for relief of severe fear of childbirth in pregnancy and their underlying conceptual foundation. a systematic literature search was performed following Cochrane Collaboration and PRISMA Statement recommendations. Inclusion criteria were: studies including pregnant women diagnosed with high or severe FOC or who requested a caesarean section due to severe FOC, studies (regardless of design) observing the effect of an intervention addressing FOC, and studies published in English. Publications addressing anxiety or stress were excluded. 377 references were screened by title and abstract. The risk of bias was assessed. 19 articles referring to 15 research projects were included in the analysis. The studies show heterogeneity regarding assessment methods, type, conceptualisation and application of interventions. There is evidence that both cognitive therapy sessions and a theory-based group psychoeducation with relaxation are effective interventions. despite methodological limitations, single or group psychoeducation sessions for nulliparous women or therapeutic conversation during pregnancy (in group or individual sessions) have the potential to strengthen women's self-efficacy and decrease the number of caesarean sections due to FOC. The theoretical validation of an intervention deepens the understanding of psychological processes in women coping with severe FOC. theory-based concepts of care for both antenatal and intrapartum support of pregnant women with high or severe FOC should be developed, piloted, tested, evaluated and implemented within the given healthcare system. Midwives need to be competent to address pregnant women's fears regarding labour and birth in antenatal care. The use of a valid assessment tool to identify the level of FOC in women, even if they do not raise the issue, is recommended in routine antenatal care so that appropriate expert support can be offered. A one-on-one conversation may be feasible for those women unwilling to fill in a questionnaire. Cooperative local networks between midwives, psychologists and obstetricians qualified in psychotherapy should be established to ensure timely and effective care for women with high or severe FOC.

To investigate the neuropsychological characteristics and changes in CRP, S100B, MBP, HSP-7, and NSE in serum. Sixty-six (66) patients treated in our hospital as CCCI group were chosen for our study, and 90 patients with depression were selected as the depression group. The patients in both groups were examined with CT perfusion, depression, anxiety and cognition evaluation. Their serum CRP, S100B, MBP, HSP-70 and NSE levels were detected. Neuropsychological and serum markers characteristics were compared. The CBF and CBV in bilateral basal ganglia, frontal lobes, greater oval center, brain stem, and left and right regions of occipital lobes of the patients in CCCI group were significantly lower than in the depression group. The HAMD and HAMA scores of CCCI group patients were significantly lower than in the depression group; CCCI group performed better regarding attention, memory, abstract terms and delayed recall. CCCI also had significantly higher total scores than the depression group. Serum CRP, S100B, MBP, HSP-70 and NSE levels in CCCI group were significantly higher than in the depression group. The differences reach statistical significance (p<0.05). CCCI patients who are accompanied by minor depressive disorder have different degrees of cognitive impairment and experience a significant rise in serum CRP, S100B, MBP, HSP-70 and NSE.

To examine how positive affect influences ability to benefit from heart rate variability (HRV) biofeedback treatment for individuals with severe brain injury. Secondary data analysis of a nonrandomized experimental study that assessed the efficacy of biofeedback treatment for executive dysfunction in 13 individuals with chronic severe brain injury. Bivariate correlations between the predictors (levels of HRV and positive affect) and the outcome (change in Category Test errors) showed large effect sizes for higher levels of HRV coherence (r = -.495, p = .085) but not for positive affect (r = .069, p = .824). Although positive affect had a negligible effect on Category Test improvements by itself, positive affect played a moderating role that complemented the effect of HRV coherence. HRV coherence had a stronger effect on Category Test performance among those participants who demonstrated higher positive affect. A regression model was fit that included main effects for HRV coherence and positive affect, as well as their interaction. The interaction term was significant in a 1-tailed test (b = -3.902, SE = 1.914, p = .072). Participants who had the most positive emotions made the most gains in the HRV biofeedback training and performed better posttreatment on a test designed to measure problem-solving ability. Results indicate that positive affect can improve cognition, specifically mental flexibility and abstract thinking. Addressing factors that shape negative affect such as irrational beliefs and self-doubt is an important target for therapeutic intervention even in those with severe, chronic deficits. (PsycINFO Database Record

The Cognitive Avoidance Theory of Worry argues that worry is a cognitive strategy adopted to control the physiological arousal associated with anxiety. According to this theory, pathological worry, as in Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD), is verbal in nature, negative and abstract, rather than concrete. Neuroimaging studies link the expression of worry to characteristic modes of brain functional connectivity, especially in relation to the amygdala. However, the distinctive features of worry (verbal, abstract, negative), and their relationship to physiological arousal, have not so far been mapped to brain function. We addressed this omission by undertaking a resting-state functional magnetic resonance neuroimaging study of 19 patients with GAD and 21 controls, before and after induction of perseverative cognitions, while measuring emotional bodily arousal from heart rate (HR). Seed-based analyses quantified brain changes in whole brain functional connectivity from the amygdala. In GAD, the induction increased negative thoughts and their verbal content. In line with predictions, the verbal expression of worry in GAD was associated with higher HR at baseline and attenuated HR increases after induction of perseverative cognitions. Within brain, the increased use of words during worry, and the associated dampening of HR after induction were mediated by the strength of functional connectivity between the amygdala and default mode network 'hubs' and the opercular cortex. The negative content of worry was further related to functional communication between amygdala and cingulo-opercular and temporal cortices. Findings provide a neurobiological basis for the impact of verbal worry on HR in GAD.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Psychological distress is a major health concern, and university student populations are at a risk due to high academic, economic and interpersonal demands at this time. While a number of studies have been conducted looking at distress and service uptake amongst university students, there is a lack of comparative information in the student nurse population. Therefore, this study focuses on level of psychological distress and service uptake in student nurses during their training. Student nurses in training are acknowledged as particularly vulnerable to anxiety and depression. Anxiety and depression can interfere with educational achievement and interfere with working relationships, which are an important aspect of clinical practice. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study investigates psychological distress and service uptake in student nurses, in a single study, by measuring the level of distress and comparing this with adult nonpatient norms. The key findings suggest high levels of anxiety and depression and poor uptake of support in student nurses. The main barrier to seeking support was the fear of disclosure about their anxiety and/or depression, and feared impact on their suitability to train as a nurse. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Due to the fear of disclosure and low levels of support seeking, mental health nurses and academics have a key role to play in mental health literacy. It seems reasonable, given the key findings, to suggest that interventions be directed at decreasing anxiety and depression such as mindfulness training and other evidence-based strategies. It is recommended that psychological distress needs due attention from higher education sector and those health professionals involved in mental health service provision to support evidence-based strategies that target these issues. Introduction This study adds to the existing international evidence on psychological distress in the student population by focusing on student nurses. It quantitatively assesses psychological distress with comparative norms and investigates service uptake in a single study. Aim The aim of this study was to investigate the level of psychological distress in students and compare this with population norms and highlight potential facilitators and barriers to help seeking. Methods This study recruited N = 121 student nurses from one university in a cross-sectional design. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics, independent t tests and one-way ANOVAs. Findings The key findings show high levels of psychological distress, which is above levels seen in the general population. The main barriers to seeking support were fear of disclosure and the perceived impact on their suitability as a student nurse. Discussion The study highlights that high levels of distress identified in the literature are seen in student nurses and that fear of disclosure may account for some not seeking support. Relevance The fear of disclosure and low levels of seeking support suggest there is a need for mental health nurses and academics to play a key role in mental health literacy and evidence-based interventions such as mindfulness to combat these issues.

The neurocircuitries that constitute the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical (CSTC) circuit provide a framework for bridging gaps between neuroscience and executive function in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but it has been difficult to identify the mechanisms for regulating emotional problems from the understanding of ADHD comorbidity with disruptive behavior disorders (DBD). Research based on "cool" and "hot" executive functional theory and the dual pathway models, which are thought of as applied response inhibition and delay aversion, respectively, within the neuropsychological view of ADHD, has shed light on emotional responding before and after decontextualized stimuli, while CSTC circuit-related domains have been suggested to explain the different emotional symptoms of ADHD with or without comorbid DBD. This review discusses the role of abnormal connections in each CSTC circuit, especially in the emotion circuit, which may be responsible for targeted executive dysfunction at the neuroscience level. Thus, the two major domains - abstract thinking (cool) and emotional trait (hot) - trigger the mechanism of onset of ADHD.

Models and constructs of individual differences are numerous and diverse. But detecting commonalities, differences and interrelations is hindered by the common abstract terms (e.g. 'personality', 'temperament', 'traits') that do not reveal the particular phenomena denoted. This article applies a transdisciplinary paradigm for research on individuals that builds on complexity theory and epistemological complementarity. Its philosophical, metatheoretical and methodological frameworks provide concepts to differentiate various kinds of phenomena (e.g. physiology, behaviour, psyche, language). They are used to scrutinize the field's basic concepts and to elaborate methodological foundations for taxonomizing individual variations in humans and other species. This guide to developing comprehensive and representative models explores the decisions taxonomists must make about which individual variations to include, which to retain and how to model them. Selection and reduction approaches from various disciplines are classified by their underlying rationales, pinpointing possibilities and limitations. Analyses highlight that individuals' complexity cannot be captured by one universal model. Instead, multiple models phenotypically taxonomizing different kinds of variability in different kinds of phenomena are needed to explore their causal and functional interrelations and ontogenetic development that are then modelled in integrative and explanatory taxonomies. This research agenda requires the expertise of many disciplines and is inherently transdisciplinary.This article is part of the theme issue 'Diverse perspectives on diversity: multi-disciplinary approaches to taxonomies of individual differences'.

Why do some events feel "like yesterday" whereas others feel "ages away"? Past research has identified cues that influence people's estimates of distance in units such as how many miles or days away events are from the self. However, what makes events feel psychologically close or distant? We examine the hypothesis that increased simulational fluency, the ease with which people mentally imagine events, makes events feel psychologically close. Simulational fluency was associated with feelings that multiple past and future holidays were psychologically close (Studies 1a and 1b). Writing short, easy-to-generate descriptions of Christmas made it feel psychologically closer and more fluently simulated compared with writing longer, difficult-to-generate descriptions (Study 2). This pattern was not anticipated by readers of the same content who did not directly experience the fluency of writing descriptions. Writing descriptions of Halloween made it feel fluently simulated and psychologically close, even as concrete "how" descriptions reduced construal level compared with abstract "why" descriptions (Study 3). Listening to a fluent audio description of a past Super Bowl, compared with a disfluent audio description, caused the game to feel psychologically closer in both space and time (Study 4). Reading a description of the Super Bowl in easy-to-read font, compared with difficult-to-read font, made the game feel more fluently simulated and psychologically closer (Study 5). These findings have implications for theories of psychological distance and its role in everyday life. (PsycINFO Database Record

Previous research showed that modality-preferential sensorimotor areas are relevant for processing concrete words used to speak about actions. However, whether modality-preferential areas also play a role for abstract words is still under debate. Whereas recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies suggest an involvement of motor cortex in processing the meaning of abstract emotion words as, for example, 'love', other non-emotional abstract words, in particular 'mental words', such as 'thought' or 'logic', are believed to engage 'amodal' semantic systems only. In the present event-related fMRI experiment, subjects passively read abstract emotional and mental nouns along with concrete action related words. Contrary to expectation, the results indicate a specific involvement of face motor areas in the processing of mental nouns, resembling that seen for face related action words. This result was confirmed when subject-specific regions of interest (ROIs) defined by motor localizers were used. We conclude that a role of motor systems in semantic processing is not restricted to concrete words but extends to at least some abstract mental symbols previously thought to be entirely 'disembodied' and divorced from semantically related sensorimotor processing. Implications for neurocognitive theories of semantics and clinical applications will be highlighted, paying specific attention to the role of brain activations as indexes of cognitive processes and their relationships to 'causal' studies addressing lesion and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) effects. Possible implications for clinical practice, in particular speech language therapy, are discussed in closing.

What is the central question of this study? How does chronic stress impact cerebrovascular function and does metabolic syndrome accelerate the cerebrovascular adaptations to stress? What role does exercise training have in preventing cerebrovascular changes to stress and metabolic syndrome? What is the main finding and its importance? Stressful conditions lead to pathological adaptations of the cerebrovasculature via an oxidative nitric oxide pathway, and the presence of metabolic syndrome produces a greater susceptibility to stress-induced cerebrovascular dysfunction. The results also provide insight into the mechanisms that may contribute to the influence of stress and the role of exercise in preventing the negative actions of stress on cerebrovascular function and structure. Chronic unresolvable stress leads to the development of depression and cardiovascular disease. There is a high prevalence of depression with the metabolic syndrome (MetS), but to what extent the MetS concurrent with psychological stress affects cerebrovascular function is unknown. We investigated the differential effect of MetS on cerebrovascular structure/function in rats (16-17 weeks old) following 8 weeks of unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) and whether exercise training could limit any cerebrovascular dysfunction. In healthy lean Zucker rats (LZR), UCMS decreased (28%, P < 0.05) ex vivo middle cerebral artery (MCA) endothelium-dependent dilatation (EDD), but changes in MCA remodelling and stiffness were not evident, though cerebral microvessel density (MVD) decreased (30%, P < 0.05). The presence of UCMS and MetS (obese Zucker rats; OZR) decreased MCA EDD (35%, P < 0.05) and dilatation to sodium nitroprusside (20%, P < 0.05), while MCA stiffness increased and cerebral MVD decreased (31%, P < 0.05), which were linked to reduced nitric oxide and increased oxidative levels. Aerobic exercise prevented UCMS impairments in MCA function and MVD in LZR, and partly restored MCA function, stiffness and MVD in OZR. Our data suggest that the benefits of exercise with UCMS were due to a reduction in oxidative stress and increased production of nitric oxide in the cerebral vessels. In conclusion, UCMS significantly impaired MCA structure and function, but the effects of UCMS were more substantial in OZR vs. LZR. Importantly, aerobic exercise when combined with UCMS prevented the MCA dysfunction through subtle shifts in nitric oxide and oxidative stress in the cerebral microvasculature.

Words that correspond to a potential sensory experience-concrete words-have long been found to possess a processing advantage over abstract words in various lexical tasks. We collected norms of concreteness for a set of 1,659 French words, together with other psycholinguistic norms that were not available for these words-context availability, emotional valence, and arousal-but which are important if we are to achieve a better understanding of the meaning of concreteness effects. We then investigated the relationships of concreteness with these newly collected variables, together with other psycholinguistic variables that were already available for this set of words (e.g., imageability, age of acquisition, and sensory experience ratings). Finally, thanks to the variety of psychological norms available for this set of words, we decided to test further the embodied account of concreteness effects in visual-word recognition, championed by Kousta, Vigliocco, Vinson, Andrews, and Del Campo (Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 140, 14-34, 2011). Similarly, we investigated the influences of concreteness in three word recognition tasks-lexical decision, progressive demasking, and word naming-using a multiple regression approach, based on the reaction times available in Chronolex (Ferrand, Brysbaert, Keuleers, New, Bonin, Méot, Pallier, Frontiers in Psychology, 2; 306, 2011). The norms can be downloaded as supplementary material provided with this article.

Emotion (positive and negative) words are typically recognized faster than neutral words. Recent research suggests that emotional valence, while often treated as a unitary semantic property, may be differentially represented in concrete and abstract words. Studies that have explicitly examined the interaction of emotion and concreteness, however, have demonstrated inconsistent patterns of results. Moreover, these findings may be limited as certain key lexical variables (e.g., familiarity, age of acquisition) were not taken into account. We investigated the emotion-concreteness interaction in a large-scale, highly controlled lexical decision experiment. A 3 (Emotion: negative, neutral, positive) × 2 (Concreteness: abstract, concrete) design was used, with 45 items per condition and 127 participants. We found a significant interaction between emotion and concreteness. Although positive and negative valenced words were recognized faster than neutral words, this emotion advantage was significantly larger in concrete than in abstract words. We explored potential contributions of participant alexithymia level and item imageability to this interactive pattern. We found that only word imageability significantly modulated the emotion-concreteness interaction. While both concrete and abstract emotion words are advantageously processed relative to comparable neutral words, the mechanisms of this facilitation are paradoxically more dependent on imageability in abstract words. (PsycINFO Database Record

The Temporal Experience of Pleasure Scale (TEPS) is a self-report instrument that assesses pleasure experience. Initial scale development and validation in the United States yielded a two-factor solution comprising anticipatory and consummatory pleasure. However, a four-factor model that further parsed anticipatory and consummatory pleasure experience into abstract and contextual components was a better model fit in China. In this study, we tested both models using confirmatory factor analysis in an American and a Chinese sample and examined the configural measurement invariance of both models across culture. We also examined the temporal stability of the four-factor model in the Chinese sample. The results indicated that the four-factor model of the TEPS was a better fit than the two-factor model in the Chinese sample. In contrast, both models fit the American sample, which also included many Asian American participants. The four-factor model fit both the Asian American and Chinese samples equally well. Finally, the four-factor model demonstrated good measurement and structural invariance across culture and time, suggesting that this model may be applicable in both cross-cultural and longitudinal studies.

What is common among Newtonian mechanics, statistical physics, thermodynamics, quantum physics, the theory of relativity, astrophysics and the theory of superstrings? All these areas of physics have in common a methodology, which is discussed in the first few lines of the review. Is a physics of the mind possible? Is it possible to describe how a mind adapts in real time to changes in the physical world through a theory based on a few basic laws? From perception and elementary cognition to emotions and abstract ideas allowing high-level cognition and executive functioning, at nearly all levels of study, the mind shows variability and uncertainties. Is it possible to turn psychology and neuroscience into so-called "hard" sciences? This review discusses several established first principles for the description of mind and their mathematical formulations. A mathematical model of mind is derived from these principles. This model includes mechanisms of instincts, emotions, behavior, cognition, concepts, language, intuitions, and imagination. We clarify fundamental notions such as the opposition between the conscious and the unconscious, the knowledge instinct and aesthetic emotions, as well as humans' universal abilities for symbols and meaning. In particular, the review discusses in length evolutionary and cognitive functions of aesthetic emotions and musical emotions. Several theoretical predictions are derived from the model, some of which have been experimentally confirmed. These empirical results are summarized and we introduce new theoretical developments. Several unsolved theoretical problems are proposed, as well as new experimental challenges for future research.

Stress and anxiety levels are elevated among university and college students. Although high stress levels can lead to an increase in adiposity, it is not clear whether stress and anxiety experienced when in university or college have an influence on students' weight. The aim of this systemic review was to investigate whether stress and anxiety levels encountered during university and college enrollment were associated with higher adiposity or weight changes among students. A search strategy was used to identify peer-reviewed studies published between 1985 and March 2017 using the following databases: Medline using Ovid; PubMed, CINAHL using EBSCO, Embase using Ovid, PSYCHINFO, and Open Access Theses and Dissertation. Two reviewers independently assessed the title, abstract, and then the full article of the studies that met the inclusion criteria. Data were extracted and quality assessment was conducted for the included studies. Twenty-five observational studies were identified in this review (23 cross-sectional and two longitudinal); 11 found that there was no association between stress and body mass index or weight change. In addition, five studies did not find a significant association between anxiety and body mass index. A few studies revealed stress and anxiety might be associated with higher or lower weight status, thus there is a possibility that stress can increase or decrease weight, demonstrating that a bidirectional influence on body mass index may exist. The current data in this review are inadequate to draw firm conclusions about the role of stress on weight change in university and college students. The inconsistency of results in the literature reviewed for this article suggest that a focus on longitudinal studies with adequate sample size would better evaluate the relationship between stress or anxiety and its influence on weight status or weight change among college and university students.

The present study was designed to examine preschoolers' ability to recognize the emotional expressiveness of an art painting, through its colors. To attain this aim 78 children, 3-5 years old were presented with realistic and abstract paintings conveying either happiness or sadness and were asked to choose those which matched the appropriate emotion. In total 16 paintings were used, which varied in color, while their subject matter was held as constant as possible after they had been previously rated by a group of adults to ensure that they conveyed the two emotions under investigation. Results showed that children's ability to recognize the emotional expressiveness of a painting through its colors appears at 3 years old and increases significantly at 4 and 5 years old. It was also found that the mood of happiness was more easily recognized than that of sadness, while the style of art paintings (realistic vs. abstract) did not affect children's ability to recognize emotions.

Trauma First - an Outpatient, Cognitive-Behavioural Intervention for Children and Adolescents With Trauma-Related Disorders: a Pilot Study 

Today some studies of physicians' perceptions of hope are available, but not studies of how hope informs patient care. The objectives of this qualitative study were to describe the ways physicians conceptualize hope and how these may inform interactions with their patients. Ten physicians working in a large tertiary care teaching hospital were interviewed. They represented palliative care, oncology, and 7 other specialties. Minimal amount of background information was collected. In-depth interviews were conducted during spring of 2016. Open coding and the constant comparison method were used to identify emerging themes from the transcribed data. Validation method included member checking. Hope was defined as an abstract, evolving concept characterized by future-oriented wishes; offering possibilities for reframing and shaping new meaning; an attitude of positivity or optimism; an attribute of the human condition with emotional and relational roots; and as a response to the existential inevitability of suffering and death. Three themes describing hope emerged: "assessing hope," "fostering and sustaining hope," and "attributes and outcomes of hope." The findings show how physicians conceptualize hope and how these conceptions differ in the empirical light of the study. Physicians' perceptions of "hope" may evolve when entering into a therapeutic relationship exploring the needs and desires of patients. Physicians' perspectives about "hope" may at times not be solely their own but are those of their patients and thus resulting in an amalgamation, or a rebuilding/rekindling of hope amidst hopelessness, that suits a particular relationship.

Fear of Childbirth (FOC) is a common problem affecting women's health and wellbeing, and a common reason for requesting caesarean section. The aims of this review were to summarise published research on prevalence of FOC in childbearing women and how it is defined and measured during pregnancy and postpartum, and to search for useful measures of FOC, for research as well as for clinical settings. Five bibliographic databases in March 2015 were searched for published research on FOC, using a protocol agreed a priori. The quality of selected studies was assessed independently by pairs of authors. Prevalence data, definitions and methods of measurement were extracted independently from each included study by pairs of authors. Finally, some of the country rates were combined and compared. In total, 12,188 citations were identified and screened by title and abstract; 11,698 were excluded and full-text of 490 assessed for analysis. Of these, 466 were excluded leaving 24 papers included in the review, presenting prevalence of FOC from nine countries in Europe, Australia, Canada and the United States. Various definitions and measurements of FOC were used. The most frequently-used scale was the W-DEQ with various cut-off points describing moderate, severe/intense and extreme/phobic fear. Different 3-, 4-, and 5/6 point scales and visual analogue scales were also used. Country rates (as measured by seven studies using W-DEQ with ≥85 cut-off point) varied from 6.3 to 14.8%, a significant difference (chi-square = 104.44, d.f. = 6, p < 0.0001). Rates of severe FOC, measured in the same way, varied in different countries. Reasons why FOC might differ are unknown, and further research is necessary. Future studies on FOC should use the W-DEQ tool with a cut-off point of ≥85, or a more thoroughly tested version of the FOBS scale, or a three-point scale measurement of FOC using a single question as 'Are you afraid about the birth?' In this way, valid comparisons in research can be made. Moreover, validation of a clinical tool that is more focussed on FOC alone, and easier than the longer W-DEQ, for women to fill in and clinicians to administer, is required.

The effect of art expertise on viewers' processing of titled visual artwork was examined. The study extended the research of Leder, Carbon, and Ripsas by explicitly selecting art novices and art experts. The study was designed to test assumptions about how expertise modulates context in the form of titles for artworks. Viewers rated a set of abstract paintings for liking and understanding. The type of title accompanying the artwork (descriptive or elaborative) was manipulated. Viewers were allotted as much time as they wished to view each artwork. For judgments of liking, novices and experts both liked artworks with elaborative titles better, with overall rated liking similar for both groups. For judgments of understanding, type of title had no effect on ratings for both novices and experts. However, experts' rated understanding was higher than novices, with experts making their decisions faster than novices. An analysis of viewers' art expertise revealed that expertise was correlated with understanding, but not liking. Overall, the results suggest that both novices and experts integrate title with visual image in similar manner. However, expertise differentially affected liking and understanding. The results differ from those obtained by Leder et al. The differences between studies are discussed.

Several lines of evidence suggest that angularity and curvilinearity are relied upon to infer the presence or absence of threat. This study examines whether angular shapes are more salient in threatening compared with nonthreatening emotionally neutral faces. The saliency of angular shapes was measured by the amount of local maxima in S(θ), a function that characterizes how the Fourier magnitude spectrum varies along specific orientations. The validity of this metric was tested and supported with images of threatening and nonthreatening real-world objects and abstract patterns that have predominantly angular or curvilinear features (Experiment 1). This metric was then applied to computer-generated faces that maximally correlate with threat (Experiment 2a) and to real faces that have been rated according to threat (Experiment 3). For computer-generated faces, angular shapes became increasingly salient as the threat level of the faces increased. For real faces, the saliency of angular shapes was not predictive of threat ratings after controlling for other well-established threat cues, however, other facial features related to angularity (e.g., brow steepness) and curvilinearity (e.g., round eyes) were significant predictors. The results offer preliminary support for angularity as a threat cue for emotionally neutral faces.

Within the neurocognitive literature there is much debate about the role of the motor system in language, social communication and conceptual processing. We suggest, here, that autism spectrum conditions (ASC) may afford an excellent test case for investigating and evaluating contemporary neurocognitive models, most notably a neurobiological theory of action perception integration where widely-distributed cell assemblies linking neurons in action and perceptual brain regions act as the building blocks of many higher cognitive functions. We review a literature of functional motor abnormalities in ASC, following this with discussion of their neural correlates and aberrancies in language development, explaining how these might arise with reference to the typical formation of cell assemblies linking action and perceptual brain regions. This model gives rise to clear hypotheses regarding language comprehension, and we highlight a recent set of studies reporting differences in brain activation and behaviour in the processing of action-related and abstract-emotional concepts in individuals with ASC. At the neuroanatomical level, we discuss structural differences in long-distance frontotemporal and frontoparietal connections in ASC, such as would compromise information transfer between sensory and motor regions. This neurobiological model of action perception integration may shed light on the cognitive and social-interactive symptoms of ASC, building on and extending earlier proposals linking autistic symptomatology to motor disorder and dysfunction in action perception integration. Further investigating the contribution of motor dysfunction to higher cognitive and social impairment, we suggest, is timely and promising as it may advance both neurocognitive theory and the development of new clinical interventions for this population and others characterised by early and pervasive motor disruption.

To synthesize the research findings about the relationship between mindfulness-based parenting interventions and symptoms of depression in parents. The terms mindfulness, parent or mother, and depression were used to search PubMed, the Cumulative Index for Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Scopus, and PsychInfo/OVID databases. A limitation was not set for date of publication. The database searches resulted in 198 articles for abstract review, 7 of which remained after the application of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Three randomized controlled trials and four descriptive studies were included in the review. Three studies included mothers as the only participants; the other studies included a small to moderate percentage of fathers. Studies were reviewed for findings relevant to the relationship between mindfulness-based parenting interventions and symptoms of depression in parents according to their respective research designs. Analysis of the randomized controlled trials showed that mindfulness-based parenting interventions had significant positive treatment effects on symptoms of depression. Analysis of the descriptive studies showed significant inverse associations between mindfulness and depression scores. Although findings were consistent across the studies, the studies varied significantly in participant characteristics, intervention frequency and duration, and measurement tools. Further research is recommended with regard to the use of mindfulness-based parenting interventions to influence symptoms of depression in diverse populations. Samples of parents with culturally, economically, or racially diverse backgrounds have not been well-studied in relation to mindfulness-based parenting. Consistent use of frameworks, intervention types, and measurement tools across studies will strengthen the body of evidence.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: It is generally felt that it is helpful for mental health nurses to control their emotions during their work. There are different approaches, but there is growing acceptance that different emotions may need different coping strategies. There is lots of evidence that nurses sometimes feel anger in a number of situations, but the research about anger in mental health nurses has never been examined as a whole. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We have systematically identified all previous research where nurses completed measures that tried to measure their anger in certain situations, compared it to other people or investigated how it affected them or what its relationship was with their practice. Only a few studies have measured nurses' anger. However, it seems that while nurses are not generally angrier than any other group, they do often feel anger in relation to management of patient aggression and their job situation more generally. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Anger is the most commonly reported problematic emotion for mental health nurses. It may influence their practice and affect their well-being. This has implications for staff support and training. Introduction Emotional regulation is important in mental health nursing practice, but individual emotions may require different regulation strategies. There is ample evidence that nurses experience anger specifically during their work, for example when experiencing patient aggression. It is, therefore, important to consolidate what is known about how anger manifests in mental health nursing practice. We aimed to systematically identify, evaluate and synthesize results from studies about mental health nurses and anger, where anger was measured objectively. Systematic literature review based on PRISMA guidelines. We identified 12 studies. A range of validated and nonvalidated instruments was used. Mental health nurses may have lower levels of anger than normative samples, but anger is commonly reported as an issue for them. Anger was studied in relation to its links with (1) clinical management of patients, notably violence containment; and (2) employment issues more generally, notably job motivation. Anger is related to nurses' attitudes about the acceptability of coercion, but there is no evidence that it results in more coercion. Nurses should be aware of the potential influence of anger on their practice. Anger, specifically, should be considered when supporting mental health nurses, for example in clinical supervision. Emotional regulation training should target anger.

Despite the widespread research recommendations for psychiatric nurses and other mental health professionals to include parents in adolescent depression treatment, no systematic reviews have yet synthesized the findings from intervention studies that included parents in the treatment and/or prevention of adolescent depression. Therefore, this systematic review was conducted to (i) identify and describe clinical trials that included parents as an integral component of adolescent depression interventions, (ii) examine the effectiveness of these trials in reducing depressive symptoms, and (iii) evaluate their methodological quality. We systematically searched the databases PubMed and PsycINFO. The search strategy adhered to the PRISMA statement to guide identification and selection of articles. Further, a structured evaluation form was adapted from the CONSORT statement and methodological literature to evaluate the elicited clinical trials. A total of 288 unique articles met criteria for abstract level screening, 45 articles were selected for full-text review, and 16 articles were included in the final analysis. We found that (i) available approaches to include parents in adolescent depression interventions vary in their theoretical stance, purpose, sample characteristics, and measured outcomes, (ii) the health outcomes of these approaches seemed to be contingent upon the nature of parental involvement, and (iii) effective translation of these approaches into practice needs to be considered in the light of their methodological rigour. Our review revealed a variety of promising approaches to utilize the parental and family contexts as a means of preventing or treating adolescent depression. However, more research is needed to determine which interventions, within what contexts, and using what resources will facilitate the best health outcomes for adolescents with depression and their parents.

This study systematically explored the barriers and facilitators to routine antenatal HIV testing from the perspective of pregnant women in sub-Saharan Africa during the implementation period of the Millennium Development Goals. Articles published between 2000 and 2015 were selected after reviewing the title, abstract, and references. Twenty-seven studies published in 11 African countries were eligible for the current study and reviewed. The most common barriers identified include communication with male partners, patient convenience and accessibility, health system and health-care provider issues, fear of disclosure, HIV-related stigma, the burden of other responsibilities at home, and the perception of antenatal care as a "woman's job." Routine testing among pregnant women is crucial for the eradication of infant and child HIV infections. Further understanding the interplay of social and cultural factors, particularly the role of women in intimate relationships and the influence of men on antenatal care seeking behaviors, is necessary to continue the work of the Millennium Development Goals.

Decoding the meaning of others' actions, a crucial step for social cognition, involves different neural mechanisms. While the "mirror" and "mentalizing" systems have been associated with, respectively, the processing of biological actions versus more abstract information, their respective contribution to intention understanding is debated. Processing social interactions seems to recruit both neural systems, with a different weight depending on cues emphasizing either shared action goals or shared mental states. We have previously shown that observing cooperative and affective social interactions elicits stronger activity in key nodes of, respectively, the mirror (left posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), superior parietal cortex (SPL), and ventral/dorsal premotor cortex (vPMC/dPMC)) and mentalizing (ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC)) systems. To unveil their causal organization, we investigated the effective connectivity underlying the observation of human social interactions expressing increasing cooperativity (involving left pSTS, SPL, and vPMC) versus affectivity (vmPFC) via dynamic causal modeling in 36 healthy human subjects. We found strong evidence for a model including the pSTS and vPMC as input nodes for the observed interactions. The extrinsic connectivity of this model undergoes oppositely valenced modulations, with cooperativity promoting positive modulations of connectivity between pSTS and both SPL (forward) and vPMC (mainly backward), and affectivity promoting reciprocal positive modulations of connectivity between pSTS and vmPFC (mainly backward). Alongside fMRI data, such divergent effective connectivity suggests that different dimensions underlying the processing of social interactions recruit distinct, although strongly interconnected, neural pathways associated with, respectively, the bottom-up visuomotor processing of motor intentions, and the top-down attribution of affective/mental states.

Classical conditioning theories of addiction suggest that stimuli associated with rewards acquire incentive salience, inducing emotional and attentional conditioned responses. It is not clear whether those responses occur without contingency awareness (CA), i.e. are based on explicit or implicit learning processes. Examining implicit aspects of stimulus-reward associations can improve our understanding of addictive behaviours, supporting treatment and prevention strategies. However, the acquisition of conditioned responses without CA has yet to be rigorously demonstrated, as the existing literature shows a lack of methodological agreement regarding the measurement of implicit and explicit processes. The purpose of two experiments presented here was to study the emotional value acquired by CS through implicit emotional and attentional processes, trying to overcome critical methodological issues. Experiment 1 (n = 48) paired two stimuli categories (houses/buildings) with high (HR) or low (LR) probabilities of monetary reward. An Emotional Attentional Blink revealed preferential attention for HR over LR regardless of CA; while pleasantness ratings were unaffected, probably due to the intrinsic nature of CS. Experiment 2 (n = 60) replicated the effect of conditioning on the Emotional Attentional Blink utilising abstract CS (octagons/squares). In addition increased pleasantness for HR over LR was found significant overall, and marginally significant for Aware but not for Unaware participants. Here CA was rigorously determined using a signal-detection analysis and metacognitive-awareness measurements. Bayesian analyses verified the unconscious nature of the learning. These findings demonstrate that attentional conditioned responses can occur without CA and advance our understanding of the mechanisms by which implicit conditioning can occur and becomes observable. Furthermore, these results can highlight how addictive behaviours might develop.

Evidence for the relationship between antidepressant use during pregnancy and the risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the children is conflicting. To assess the association between fetal exposure to antidepressant drugs and the subsequent development of ADHD. A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and CINAHL databases to identify relevant cohort studies published from inception until October 2017. Cohort studies, identifying children with ADHD diagnosis and linking antidepressant use during pregnancy in their mothers. Two reviewers independently abstracted data and assessed study quality. The literature search identified six relevant cohort studies with association between antidepressant exposure during pregnancy and the risk of ADHD in children [hazard ratio (HR) 1.34; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.14-1.57]. However, the association was not statistically significant when the reference group was mothers with psychiatric disorders not treated during pregnancy (HR 0.96; 95% CI 0.76-1.2; n = 2 studies). Moreover, preconception exposure to antidepressants was significantly associated with increased risk of ADHD (HR 1.82; 95% CI 1.54-2.15; n = 3 studies). The significant association between antidepressant exposure during pregnancy and ADHD in the children can be partially explained by confounding by indication. Given the low number of included studies, further studies with prospective designs that use validated measurements and controls for important confounders are needed to verify our findings. Antidepressant use during pregnancy may be not associated with ADHD in the offspring.

The ability to identify and communicate emotions is essential to psychological well-being. Yet research focusing exclusively on emotion concepts has been limited. This study examined nouns that represent emotions (e.g., pleasure, guilt) in comparison to nouns that represent abstract (e.g., wisdom, failure) and concrete entities (e.g., flower, coffin). Twenty-five healthy participants completed a lexical decision task. Event-related potential (ERP) data showed that emotion nouns elicited less pronounced N400 than both abstract and concrete nouns. Further, N400 amplitude differences between emotion and concrete nouns were evident in both hemispheres, whereas the differences between emotion and abstract nouns had a left-lateralized distribution. These findings suggest representational distinctions, possibly in both verbal and imagery systems, between emotion concepts versus other concepts, implications of which for theories of affect representations and for research on affect disorders merit further investigation.

No abstract available.

The concept of sound iconicity implies that phonemes are intrinsically associated with non-acoustic phenomena, such as emotional expression, object size or shape, or other perceptual features. In this respect, sound iconicity is related to other forms of cross-modal associations in which stimuli from different sensory modalities are associated with each other due to the implicitly perceived correspondence of their primal features. One prominent example is the association between vowels, categorized according to their place of articulation, and size, with back vowels being associated with bigness and front vowels with smallness. However, to date the relative influence of perceptual and conceptual cognitive processing on this association is not clear. To bridge this gap, three experiments were conducted in which associations between nonsense words and pictures of animals or emotional body postures were tested. In these experiments participants had to infer the relation between visual stimuli and the notion of size from the content of the pictures, while directly perceivable features did not support-or even contradicted-the predicted association. Results show that implicit associations between articulatory-acoustic characteristics of phonemes and pictures are mainly influenced by semantic features, i.e., the content of a picture, whereas the influence of perceivable features, i.e., size or shape, is overridden. This suggests that abstract semantic concepts can function as an interface between different sensory modalities, facilitating cross-modal associations.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is a growing body of evidence that many people with an autism spectrum condition suffer anxiety in their daily life and a realization among practitioners that admission to a mental health unit for this population is usually a negative anxiety-inducing experience. Anxiety is driven by the intolerance of uncertainty that is being unsure of what is going to happen, how long the uncertainty will exist and the insistence of sameness which, when compromised, can be anxiety provoking. Equally, confusion in understanding personal emotional responses and those of others is a source of anxiety. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper builds upon existing understanding of anxiety as a causative factor of mental ill-health for people with an autism spectrum condition. Specifically, this paper explores the potentially anxiety-inducing experience of mental health unit admission; how anxiety is felt, triggered, expressed and managed. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: As many different anxiety responses could be exhibited during hospitalization, including violent acts and self-harming, for mental health practitioners working in the inpatient units, it is essential that the thoughts, feelings and responses of the patient with an autistic spectrum condition (ASC) are better understood and that support offered during their stay in a mental health facility is from an informed position. Background This qualitative study explored how mental health inpatients with autistic spectrum conditions (ASCs) experience and cope with anxiety when admitted to an acute mental health inpatient facility in the United Kingdom. Anxiety is a common characteristic for people who live with ASCs and whilst a plethora of studies on anxiety in this population is published which correlate anxiety with mental health service experience, little is known about the actual triggers of anxiety and its manifestations. This study adds to a body of evidence which considers anxiety experienced by people with autism. The rationale for this study includes the need to heighten mental health practitioners' understanding, of the responses, motivations to engage and support required to overcome fears and anxieties when admitted to a mental health inpatient unit. Method The study used a qualitative naturalistic research design, to explore the emotional and psychological experiences of being a mental health inpatient living with an ASC. During 2015-2017. audio-recorded semistructured interviews captured the experiences of 20 adults from the east of England who were former psychiatric inpatients with an established diagnosis of ASC. Interpretative phenomenological analysis enabled the identification of broad themes which explained in rich detail, participant reflections regarding the situations and events within the acute care mental health facility that triggered their anxiety, manifestations of anxiety and responses to their anxiety. Findings Broad response patterns were identified that could be associated with their anxiety that is isolating themselves from others, including patients and staff, ceasing to eat and sleep adequately and all too often self-harming or exhibiting aggressive and violent responses. Conclusions The anxiety caused by the physical environment appears to be overlooked by mental health practitioners so attention to anxiety-inducing encounters is needed when planning acute care mental health service improvement and research is required to clearly understand the experiences of this vulnerable group.

Maternal anxiety during pregnancy can negatively affect fetal neurodevelopment, predisposing the offspring to a higher risk of behavioral and emotional problems later in life. The current study investigates the association between maternal anxiety during pregnancy and child affective picture processing using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). Mothers reported anxiety during the second trimester using the anxiety subscale of the Symptom Checklist (SCL-90). At age 4 years, child affective picture processing (N = 86) was measured by recording ERPs during viewing of neutral, pleasant, and unpleasant pictures selected from the International Affective Pictures System. The late positive potential (LPP)-an ERP component reflecting individual differences in affective processing-was used as child outcome. The expected positive association between maternal anxiety and LPP amplitude for unpleasant pictures was not found. Nevertheless, we found a positive association between maternal anxiety during pregnancy and LPP amplitudes for neutral pictures in the middle and late time window at anterior locations (all p < .05). These associations remained significant after adjusting for maternal postnatal anxiety and gestational age at birth and after FDR correction for multiple comparisons. Our study provides neurophysiological evidence that children prenatally exposed to higher maternal anxiety devote more attentional resources to neutral pictures, but not to unpleasant pictures. Possibly, these children show enhanced vigilance for threat when viewing neutral pictures. Although useful in dangerous environments, this enhanced vigilance may predispose children prenatally exposed to higher maternal anxiety to developing behavioral and/or emotional problems later in life. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kEzYi6IS2HA.

The orbitofrontal cortex represents the reward or affective value of primary reinforcers including taste, touch, texture, and face expression. It learns to associate other stimuli with these to produce representations of the expected reward value for visual, auditory, and abstract stimuli including monetary reward value. The orbitofrontal cortex thus plays a key role in emotion, by representing the reward value of the goals for action. The learning process is stimulus-reinforcer association learning. Negative reward prediction error neurons are related to this affective learning. Activations in the orbitofrontal cortex correlate with the subjective emotional experience of affective stimuli, and damage to the orbitofrontal cortex impairs emotion-related learning, emotional behaviour, and subjective affective state. Top-down attention to affect modulates orbitofrontal cortex representations, and attention to intensity modulates representations in earlier cortical areas that represent the physical properties of stimuli. Top-down word-level cognitive inputs can bias affective representations in the orbitofrontal cortex, providing a mechanism for cognition to influence emotion. Whereas the orbitofrontal cortex provides a representation of reward or affective value on a continuous scale, areas beyond the orbitofrontal cortex such as the medial prefrontal cortex area 10 are involved in binary decision-making when a choice must be made. For this decision-making, the orbitofrontal cortex provides a representation of the value of each specific reward on the same scale, with no conversion to a common currency. Increased activity in a lateral orbitofrontal cortex non-reward area provides a new attractor-related approach to understanding and treating depression. Consistent with the theory, the lateral orbitofrontal cortex has increased functional connectivity in depression, and the medial orbitofrontal cortex, involved in reward, has decreased functional connectivity in depression.

The present work aimed to systematically examine sensory and higher level correspondences to angular and curved shapes. Participants matched angular and curved abstract shapes to sensory experiences in five different modalities as well as to emotion, gender, and name attributes presented as written labels (Study 1) and real experiences (Study 2). The results demonstrated nonarbitrary mapping of angular and curved shapes to attributes from all basic sensory modalities (vision, audition, gustation, olfaction, and tactation) and higher level attributes (emotion, gender, and name). Participants associated curved shapes with sweet taste, quiet or calm sound, vanilla smell, green color, smooth texture, relieved emotion, female gender, and wide-vowel names. In contrast, they associated angular shapes with sour taste, loud or dynamic sound, spicy or citrus smell, red color, rough texture, excited or surprise emotion, male gender, and narrow-vowel names. These prevalent correspondences were robust across different shape pairs as well as all sensory and higher level attributes, presented as both verbal labels and real sensory experiences. The second goal of this research was to examine the relationship between the shape correspondences and individual differences in emotional processing, assessed by self-report and performance measures. The results suggest that heightened emotional ability is associated with making shape attributions that go along with the found prevalent trends.

Worry is associated with inflexibility in cognitive, emotional, and physiological functioning. In addition, worry's negative valence and abstract level of construal are rigid characteristics that contribute to its nonadaptive consequences. Relaxation and cognitive therapy aim to increase flexibility in chronic worriers, and may have greater efficacy when administered in combination. We examined the extent to which relaxation enhances and/or worry inhibits cognitive flexibility during a cognitive restructuring exercise in which participants generated alternative predictions for their worries. Participants ( n = 189) were randomly assigned to engage in relaxation, worry, or neutral thinking prior to cognitive restructuring. We measured the number and perceived likelihood of alternative predictions generated by participants, and coded those alternative predictions for their degree of positive valence, negative valence, and level of construal (abstractness to concreteness). Worry and relaxation did not lead to different numbers or perceived likelihood of alternative predictions. However, compared with participants with minimal symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), those with elevated symptoms of GAD who engaged in prior worry generated alternative predictions characterized by greater negative valence and more abstractness (i.e., less concreteness). We also found that greater negative valence of alternative predictions was associated with more abstractness, whereas greater positive valence of alternative predictions was associated with more concreteness. These findings suggest that after engaging in worry, individuals with GAD may be less able to flexibly shift from the use of nonadaptive characteristics (negative valence, abstractness) associated with feared outcomes to the use of more adaptive characteristics (positive valence, concreteness) when considering alternative predictions.

Falls are problematic for people living with neurological disorders and a fear of falling can impact on actual falls. Fear of falling is commonly assessed using the Falls Self-Efficacy Scale International (FES-I) or the Activities-specific Balance Confidence (ABC) Scale. These scales can predict risk of falling. We aimed to validate the FES-I and the ABC in persons with dystonia. We conducted an online survey of people with dystonia, collecting information on demographics, 6-month falls history, dystonia disability, and the FES-I and ABC scales. Scales were validated for structural validity and internal consistency. We also examined goodness-of-fit, convergent validity, and predictive validity, and determined cutoff scores for predicting falls risk. Survey responses (n = 122) showed that both FES-I and ABC scales have high internal validity and convergent validity with the Functional Disability Questionnaire in persons with dystonia. Each scale examines a single factor, fear of falling (FES-I) and balance confidence (ABC). At least one fall was reported by 39% of participants; the cutoff value for falls risk was found to be 29.5 and 71.3 for the FES-I and the ABC respectively. The FES-I and the ABC scales are valid scales to examine fear of falling and balance confidence in persons with dystonia. Fear of falling is high and balance confidence is low and both are worse in those with dystonia who have previously fallen.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A182).

Pretense is a naturally occurring, apparently universal activity for typically developing children. Yet its function and effects remain unclear. One theorized possibility is that pretense activities, such as dramatic pretend play games, are a possible causal path to improve children's emotional development. Social and emotional skills, particularly emotional control, are critically important for social development, as well as academic performance and later life success. However, the study of such approaches has been criticized for potential bias and lack of rigor, precluding the ability to make strong causal claims. We conducted a randomized, component control (dismantling) trial of dramatic pretend play games with a low-SES group of 4-year-old children (N = 97) to test whether such practice yields generalized improvements in multiple social and emotional outcomes. We found specific effects of dramatic play games only on emotional self-control. Results suggest that dramatic pretend play games involving physicalizing emotional states and traits, pretending to be animals and human characters, and engaging in pretend scenarios in a small group may improve children's emotional control. These findings have implications for the function of pretense and design of interventions to improve emotional control in typical and atypical populations. Further, they provide support for the unique role of dramatic pretend play games for young children, particularly those from low-income backgrounds. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/2GVNcWKRHPk.

No abstract available.

The neurobiological mechanisms that underlie the resistance of drug cue associations to extinction in addiction remain unknown. Fear extinction critically depends on the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC). Here, we tested if this same region plays a role in extinction of non-fear, drug and pleasant cue associations. Eighteen chronic cocaine users and 15 matched controls completed three functional MRI scans. Participants first learned to associate an abstract cue (the conditioned stimulus, CS) with a drug-related (CS

Heart rate variability (HRV), a measure of cardiac autonomic nervous system functioning, has emerged as a physiological indicator for emotional regulation and psychological well-being. HRV is understudied in the context of depression and anxiety in young people (10-24years old). Main objectives: (1) describe the nature and breadth of reviewed studies; and (2) synthesize main findings in the context of clinical and non-clinical populations of young people with depression and/or anxiety. The Arksey and O'Malley methodology was utilized for this scoping review. CINHAL, EMBASE, Medline, PsychInfo, Scopus, Web of Science, as well as grey literature, were searched. Two reviewers screened titles, abstracts and full papers for inclusion. A total of 20 citations were included in the final review (19 citations peer-reviewed journal articles, 1 journal abstract). Numerical and thematic analysis was used to summarize study findings. In clinical populations of either depression or anxiety, HRV was lower compared to controls. In non-clinical populations of either depression or anxiety, HRV was found to be lower in those who reported more depression or anxiety symptoms. The quality of the reviewed articles was not assessed which limits the ability to generate conclusions regarding study findings. Changes in HRV were found across the spectrum of clinical and non-clinical populations of young people with depression or anxiety. Neurophysiological research on depression and anxiety in young people can act as a first step to understanding how physiological flexibility (i.e. HRV) is related to psychological flexibility (i.e. adaptive or maladaptive responses to life events).

In auditory fear conditioning, experimental subjects learn to associate an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) with an aversive unconditioned stimulus. With sufficient training, animals fear conditioned to an auditory CS show fear response to the CS, but not to irrelevant auditory stimuli. Although long-term potentiation (LTP) in the lateral amygdala (LA) plays an essential role in auditory fear conditioning, it is unknown whether LTP is induced selectively in the neural pathways conveying specific CS information to the LA in discriminative fear learning. Here, we show that postsynaptically expressed LTP is induced selectively in the CS-specific auditory pathways to the LA in a mouse model of auditory discriminative fear conditioning. Moreover, optogenetically induced depotentiation of the CS-specific auditory pathways to the LA suppressed conditioned fear responses to the CS. Our results suggest that input-specific LTP in the LA contributes to fear memory specificity, enabling adaptive fear responses only to the relevant sensory cue. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Concrete and abstract words are thought to differ along several psycholinguistic variables, such as frequency and emotional content. Here, we consider another variable, semantic neighborhood density, which has received much less attention, likely because semantic neighborhoods of abstract words are difficult to measure. Using a corpus-based method that creates representations of words that emphasize featural information, the current investigation explores the relationship between neighborhood density and concreteness in a large set of English nouns. Two important observations emerge. First, semantic neighborhood density is higher for concrete than for abstract words, even when other variables are accounted for, especially for smaller neighborhood sizes. Second, the effects of semantic neighborhood density on behavior are different for concrete and abstract words. Lexical decision reaction times are fastest for words with sparse neighborhoods; however, this effect is stronger for concrete words than for abstract words. These results suggest that semantic neighborhood density plays a role in the cognitive and psycholinguistic differences between concrete and abstract words, and should be taken into account in studies involving lexical semantics. Furthermore, the pattern of results with the current feature-based neighborhood measure is very different from that with associatively defined neighborhoods, suggesting that these two methods should be treated as separate measures rather than two interchangeable measures of semantic neighborhoods.

The human capacity to reason about others' minds includes making causal inferences about intentions, beliefs, values, and goals. Previous fMRI research has suggested that a network of brain regions, including bilateral temporo-parietal junction (TPJ), superior temporal sulcus (STS), and medial prefrontal-cortex (MPFC), are reliably recruited for mental state reasoning. Here, in two fMRI experiments, we investigate the representational content of these regions. Building on existing computational and neural evidence, we hypothesized that social brain regions contain at least two functionally and spatially distinct components: one that represents information related to others' motivations and values, and another that represents information about others' beliefs and knowledge. Using multi-voxel pattern analysis, we find evidence that motivational versus epistemic features are independently represented by theory of mind (ToM) regions: RTPJ contains information about the justification of the belief, bilateral TPJ represents the modality of the source of knowledge, and VMPFC represents the valence of the resulting emotion. These representations are found only in regions implicated in social cognition and predict behavioral responses at the level of single items. We argue that cortical regions implicated in mental state inference contain complementary, but distinct, representations of epistemic and motivational features of others' beliefs, and that, mirroring the processes observed in sensory systems, social stimuli are represented in distinct and distributed formats across the human brain.

Repetitive thoughts can be divided in two modes: abstract/analytic (decontextualized and dysfunctional) and concrete/experiential (problem-focused and adaptive). They constitute a transdiagnostic process involved in many psychopathological states but have received little attention in schizophrenia, as earlier studies only indexed increased ruminations (related to dysfunctional repetitive thoughts) without jointly exploring both modes. This study explored the two repetitive thinking modes, beyond ruminations, to determine their imbalance in schizophrenia. Thirty stabilized patients with schizophrenia and 30 matched controls completed the Repetitive Response Scale and the Mini Cambridge-Exeter Repetitive Thought Scale, both measuring repetitive thinking modes. Complementary measures related to schizophrenic symptomatology, depression and anxiety were also conducted. Compared to controls, patients with schizophrenia presented an imbalance between repetitive thinking modes, with increased abstract/analytic and reduced concrete/experiential thoughts, even after controlling for comorbidities. Schizophrenia is associated with stronger dysfunctional repetitive thoughts (i.e. abstract thinking) and impaired ability to efficiently use repetitive thinking for current problem-solving (i.e. concrete thinking). This imbalance confirms the double-faced nature of repetitive thinking modes, whose influence on schizophrenia's symptomatology should be further investigated. The present results also claim for evaluating these processes in clinical settings and for rehabilitating the balance between opposite repetitive thinking modes.

Diagnostic uncertainty is one of the largest contributory factors to the occurrence of diagnostic errors across most specialties in medicine and arguably uncertainty is greatest in primary care due to the undifferentiated symptoms primary care physicians are often presented with. Physicians can respond to diagnostic uncertainty in various ways through the interplay of a series of cognitive, emotional and ethical reactions. The consequences of such uncertainty however can impact negatively upon the primary care practitioner, their patients and the wider healthcare system. Understanding the nature of the existing empirical literature in relation to managing diagnostic uncertainty in primary medical care is a logical and necessary first step in order to understand what solutions are already available and/or to aid the development of any training or feedback aimed at better managing this uncertainty. This review is the first to characterize the existing empirical literature on managing diagnostic uncertainty in primary care. Sixteen databases were systematically searched from inception to present with no restrictions. Hand searches of relevant websites and reference lists of included studies were also conducted. Two authors conducted abstract/article screening and data extraction. PRISMA guidelines were adhered to. Ten studies met the inclusion criteria. A narrative and conceptual synthesis was undertaken under the premises of critical reviews. Results suggest that studies have focused on internal factors (traits, skills and strategies) associated with managing diagnostic uncertainty with only one external intervention identified. Cognitive factors ranged from the influences of epistemological viewpoints to practical approaches such as greater knowledge of the patient, utilizing resources to hand and using appropriate safety netting techniques. Emotional aspects of uncertainty management included clinicians embracing uncertainty and working with provisional diagnoses. Ethical aspects of uncertainty management centered on communicating diagnostic uncertainties with patients. Personality traits and characteristics influenced each of the three domains. There is little empirical evidence on how uncertainty is managed in general practice. However we highlight how the extant literature can be conceptualised into cognitive, emotional and ethical aspects of uncertainty which may help clinicians be more aware of their own biases as well as provide a platform for future research. PROSPERO registration: CRD42015027555.

Medical diagnostic procedures, such as cardiac catheterization, can cause significant patient anxiety. Patient anxiety can have negative implications for compliance with healthcare visits, medical tests, and treatments. Music interventions may have a role in reducing anxiety related to cardiac catheterization procedures. To perform a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis evaluating whether musical interventions reduce anxiety in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL, AMED, and PsychINFO from inception to May 2015. Reference lists of included articles were further hand searched for additional eligible studies. Randomized controlled trials evaluating the effectiveness of music interventions for anxiety reduction in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Data on trial design, baseline characteristics and outcomes was extracted using a data extraction table. Study quality and risk of bias were assessed using the JADAD scale. The main outcome was the effectiveness of music interventions in reducing anxiety in this patient population. Meta-analysis was pursued using data from studies that had used the Spielberger state anxiety inventory (STAI-S) to measure anxiety reduction. Other outcomes qualitatively reported include the use of anxiolytic medications and effect on physiological parameters such as blood pressure and heart rate. A total of 15 studies were found to be eligible for inclusion (14 published trials and one conference abstract) in this review. Two-thirds of these studies showed statistically significant reduction in measures of patient anxiety or well-being with musical interventions. Meta-analysis included six studies (n = 695) and showed statistically significant reduction in mean STAI-S scores with music (-3.95 points; 95% confidence -5.53 and -2.37; p value less than 0.005). In conclusion, music is a safe and easily administered intervention that can be used for anxiety reduction among patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Further research is needed to better evaluate the clinical implications associated with the anxiolytic effects of music interventions during cardiac catheterization.

To understand challenges in care after stillbirth and provide tailored solutions. Multi-centre case study. Three maternity hospitals. Parents with a stillborn baby, maternity staff. Thematic analysis of parent interviews and staff focus groups and service provision investigation. 1 Themes; 2 Triangulation matrix; 3 Recommendations. Twenty-one women, 14 partners, and 22 staff participated. Service Provision: Care for parents after stillbirth varies excessively; there are misconceptions; post-mortem does not delay follow-up. Women 'do not feel right' before stillbirth; their management is haphazard and should be standardised. Stillbirth is an emergency for parents but not always for staff; communication can seem cold; well-designed bereavement space is critical. Birth: Staff shift priorities to mother and future, but for parents their baby is still a baby; parents are not comfortable with staff recommending vaginal birth as the norm; there are several reasons why parents ask for a caesarean; better care involves clear communication, normal behaviour, and discussion of coping strategies. Post-mortem: Parents are influenced by discussions with staff. Staff should 'sow seeds', clarify its respectful nature, delineate its purpose, and explain the timescale. It is not standardised; parents wish to see their multi-professional team. There is unacceptable variation in care after stillbirth, and insensitive interactions between staff and bereaved parents. Understanding parents' needs, including why they ask for caesarean birth, will facilitate joint decision-making. Every bereaved parent is entitled to good, respectful care. Care too varied & interactions often insensitive after stillbirth; national pathway & training urgently needed PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Why and how was the study carried out? Previous studies have shown that improving care after stillbirth is important for families. We investigated the opinions of bereaved parents and maternity staff to find ways to improve care. At three hospitals in 2013, all women who experienced a stillbirth were invited to an interview along with their partners. Thirty-five parents of 21 babies agreed to participate. Twenty-two obstetricians and midwives took part in focus group discussions. What were the main findings? Care was often not as good as it should and could be. Communication with parents was not always as sensitive as they would have liked because staff did not have appropriate training. Some women reported they did not 'feel right' before going to hospital. Once they arrived, there was no standard approach to how care was given. Sometimes there were long delays before the death of the baby was confirmed and action was taken. After it had been confirmed that the baby had died, staff focussed on the mothers' needs, but the parents' priorities were still with their baby. There were several reasons why parents asked for a caesarean birth that staff had not considered. Staff influenced parents' decisions about post-mortem examinations. Parents found it helpful when staff explained the respectful nature and purpose of the examination. After discharge from hospital, there was no consistent plan for how follow-up care would be given. Parents would have liked more information about their next hospital appointment. What are the limitations of the work? The parents interviewed depended on their memories of the details of the care, which happened some time ago. In staff group discussions, junior doctors may not have spoken openly because there were senior doctors present. Further research is necessary to understand and improve care globally. What is the implication for parents? Every bereaved parent is entitled to the best possible care after stillbirth, but some do not get good care. Parents and staff made suggestions that can help to develop processes for how care is given after stillbirth. These suggestions can also inform staff training, so that every single parent is treated respectfully and participates in decision making.

Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) affect approximately 80% of surgical patients and is associated with increased length of hospital stay and systemic costs. Preoperative and postoperative pain, anxiety and depression are also commonly reported. Recent evidence regarding their safety and effectiveness has not been synthesised. The aim of this systematic review is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of herbal medications for the treatment and prevention of anxiety, depression, pain and PONV in patients undergoing laparoscopic, obstetrical/gynaecological and cardiovascular surgical procedures. The following electronic databases will be searched up to 1 October 2016 without language or publication status restrictions: CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Web of Science and LILACS. Randomised clinical trials enrolling adult surgical patients undergoing laparoscopic, obstetrical/gynaecological and cardiovascular surgeries and managed with herbal medication versus a control group (placebo, no intervention or active control) prophylactically or therapeutically will be considered eligible. Outcomes of interest will include the following: anxiety, depression, pain, nausea and vomiting. A team of reviewers will complete title and abstract screening and full-text screening for identified hits independently and in duplicate. Data extraction, risk of bias assessments and evaluation of the overall quality of evidence for each relevant outcome reported will be conducted independently and in duplicate using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment Development and Evaluation classification system. Dichotomous data will be summarised as risk ratios; continuous data will be summarised as standard average differences with 95% CIs. This is one of the first efforts to systematically summarise existing evidence evaluating the use of herbal medications in laparoscopic, obstetrical/gynaecological and cardiovascular surgical patients. The findings of this review will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations. PROSPERO CRD42016042838.

Finkel, Eastwick, and Reis (2016; FER2016) argued the post-2011 methodological reform movement has focused narrowly on replicability, neglecting other essential goals of research. We agree multiple scientific goals are essential, but argue, however, a more fine-grained language, conceptualization, and approach to replication is needed to accomplish these goals. Replication is the general empirical mechanism for testing and falsifying theory. Sufficiently methodologically similar replications, also known as direct replications, test the basic existence of phenomena and ensure cumulative progress is possible a priori. In contrast, increasingly methodologically dissimilar replications, also known as conceptual replications, test the relevance of auxiliary hypotheses (e.g., manipulation and measurement issues, contextual factors) required to productively investigate validity and generalizability. Without prioritizing replicability, a field is not empirically falsifiable. We also disagree with FER2016's position that "bigger samples are generally better, but . . . that very large samples could have the downside of commandeering resources that would have been better invested in other studies" (abstract). We identify problematic assumptions involved in FER2016's modifications of our original research-economic model, and present an improved model that quantifies when (and whether) it is reasonable to worry that increasing statistical power will engender potential trade-offs. Sufficiently powering studies (i.e., >80%) maximizes both research efficiency and confidence in the literature (research quality). Given that we are in agreement with FER2016 on all key open science points, we are eager to start seeing the accelerated rate of cumulative knowledge development of social psychological phenomena such a sufficiently transparent, powered, and falsifiable approach will generate. (PsycINFO Database Record

Suor et al. () present a compelling new evolutionary framework that offers an alternative interpretation of the well-established findings of cognitive deficits in children raised in harsh early environments. They argue that such findings do not convey a complete picture of those children's cognitive development, because children's cognition becomes specialized to solve problems in fitness-enhancing ways, and traditional abstract problem-solving tasks do not fully capture their abilities. The authors demonstrate that children exposed to early harshness, particularly children with Hawk temperaments, preferentially shift cognition to salient fitness-enhancing stimuli, and thus develop better skills for solving reward-oriented tasks. This intriguing and heuristically generative study inspires multiple new research avenues, of which we outline three: (a) Further examination of the concept of harsh environments, (b) addressing questions about the conceptualization and the role of child temperament, and (c) further advances in the measurement of children's distinct skills.

The purpose of this article is to highlight problems with a range of semantic psycholinguistic variables (concreteness, imageability, individual modality norms, and emotional valence) and to provide a way of avoiding these problems. Focusing on concreteness, I show that for a large class of words in the Brysbaert, Warriner, and Kuperman (Behavior Research Methods 46: 904-911, 2013) concreteness norms, the mean concreteness values do not reflect the judgments that actual participants made. This problem applies to nearly every word in the middle of the concreteness scale. Using list memory experiments as a case study, I show that many of the "abstract" stimuli in concreteness experiments are not unequivocally abstract. Instead, they are simply those words about which participants tend to disagree. I report three replications of list memory experiments in which the contrast between concrete and abstract stimuli was maximized, so that the mean concreteness values were accurate reflections of participants' judgments. The first two experiments did not produce a concreteness effect. After I introduced an additional control, the third experiment did produce a concreteness effect. The article closes with a discussion of the implications of these results, as well as a consideration of variables other than concreteness. The sensorimotor experience variables (imageability and individual modality norms) show the same distribution as concreteness. The distribution of emotional valence scores is healthier, but variability in ratings takes on a special significance for this measure because of how the scale is constructed. I recommend that researchers using these variables keep the standard deviations of the ratings of their stimuli as low as possible.

Although it has been established that human beings process concrete and abstract words differently, it is still a matter of debate what factors contribute to this difference. Since concrete concepts are closely tied to sensory perception, perceptual experience seems to play an important role in their processing. The present study investigated the processing of nouns during an auditory lexical decision task. Participants came from three populations differing in their visual-perceptual experience: congenitally blind persons, word-color synesthetes, and sighted non-synesthetes. Specifically, three features with potential relevance to concreteness were manipulated: sensory perception, emotionality, and Husserlian lifeworld, a concept related to the inner versus the outer world of the self. In addition to a classical concreteness effect, our results revealed a significant effect of lifeworld: words that are closely linked to the internal states of humans were processed faster than words referring to the outside world. When lifeworld was introduced as predictor, there was no effect of emotionality. Concerning participants' perceptual experience, an interaction between participant group and item characteristics was found: the effects of both concreteness and lifeworld were more pronounced for blind compared to sighted participants. We will discuss the results in the context of embodied semantics, and we will propose an approach to concreteness based on the individual's bodily experience and the relatedness of a given concept to the self.

Nurses are at a high risk for work-family conflict due to long and irregular work hours and multiple physical and psychosocial stressors in their work environment. Nurses report higher rates of depressive symptoms than the general public, leading to a high rate of burnout, absenteeism, and turnover. Work-family conflict is associated with negative consequences in nurses including physical illnesses and mental disorders. Past research on this topic has not examined the mechanisms for the effect of work family conflict on depression. Studies rarely examine the influence of health behaviors such as sleep in explaining this association. Our study identified significant association of sleep disturbances with both work-family conflict and depressive symptoms in nurses. Our main contribution is reporting the important role of sleep disturbances in translating the effect of work-family conflict on depressive symptoms among nurses. Nurses need to receive training in best practices for maintaining their own sleep and mental health. Organizations should include sleep health education and training in workplace health programs. Evidence-based interventions to promote healthy sleep practices such as cognitive behavioral therapy and complementary and integrative approaches should be evaluated for their effectiveness in addressing the impact of work-family conflict on the mental health of nurses. Healthcare organizations should incorporate mental health services as part of their Employee Assistance Program for nurses and include psychological and sleep disorders screening, counseling, and follow-up. Introduction Depression has been identified as the leading cause of disability worldwide. Nurses report higher rates of depression than the general public. Work-family conflict is challenging for nurses and may lead to depression and poor health. However, the mechanisms for the effect of work-family conflict on depression have not been well understood. Aim The objective is to use a cross-sectional design to examine the role of sleep disturbances in the association between work-family conflict and depressive symptoms in nurses. Methods Questionnaires, measuring working conditions, work-family conflict, sleep disturbances and depressive symptoms were collected from 397 nurses at a not-for-profit community hospital in the north-eastern United States. Results We observed a significant association between work-family conflict and depressive symptoms (β = 2.22, p < .001) among nurses. Sleep disturbances partially mediated this association by 40.54%. Discussion Sleep disturbances play an important role in translating work-family conflict into depressive symptoms. Implications Evidence-based interventions to promote healthy sleep practices should be evaluated for their effectiveness in addressing the impact of work-family conflict on mental health. Organizations should include sleep education and training as a component of workplace health promotion and employee assistance programmes to mitigate the effect of work-family conflict and promote overall health in nurses.

Community First Responder (CFR) schemes support lay people to respond to medical emergencies, working closely with ambulance services. They operate widely in the UK. There has been no previous review of UK literature on these schemes. This is the first systematic scoping review of UK literature on CFR schemes, which identifies the reasons for becoming a CFR, requirements for training and feedback and confusion between the CFR role and that of ambulance service staff. This study also reveals gaps in the evidence base for CFR schemes. We conducted a systematic scoping review of the published literature, in the English language from 2000 onwards using specific search terms in six databases. Narrative synthesis was used to analyse article content. Nine articles remained from the initial search of 15,969 articles after removing duplicates, title and abstract and then full text review. People were motivated to become CFRs through an altruistic desire to help others. They generally felt rewarded by their work but recognised that the help they provided was limited by their training compared with ambulance staff. There were concerns about the possible emotional impact on CFRs responding to incidents. CFRs felt that better feedback would enhance their learning. Ongoing training and support were viewed as essential to enable CFRs to progress. They perceived that public recognition of the CFR role was low, patients sometimes confusing them with ambulance staff. Relationships with the ambulance service were sometimes ambivalent due to confusion over roles. There was support for local autonomy of CFR schemes but with greater sharing of best practice. Most studies dated from 2005 and were descriptive rather than analytical. In the UK and Australia CFRs are usually lay volunteers equipped with basic skills for responding to medical emergencies, whereas in the US they include other emergency staff as well as lay people. Opportunities for future research include exploring experiences and perceptions of patients who have been treated by CFRs and other stakeholders, while also evaluating the effectiveness and costs of CFR schemes.

Individuals with Huntington disease (HD), a rare neurological disease, experience impairments in mobility and cognition throughout their disease course. The Medical Research Council framework provides a schema that can be applied to the development and evaluation of complex interventions, such as those provided by physical therapists. Treatment-based classifications, based on expert consensus and available literature, are helpful in guiding physical therapy management across the stages of HD. Such classifications also contribute to the development and further evaluation of well-defined complex interventions in this highly variable and complex neurodegenerative disease. The purpose of this case series was to illustrate the use of these classifications in the management of 2 individuals with late-stage HD. Two females, 40 and 55 years of age, with late-stage HD participated in this case series. Both experienced progressive declines in ambulatory function and balance as well as falls or fear of falling. Both individuals received daily care in the home for activities of daily living. Physical therapy Treatment-Based Classifications for HD guided the interventions and outcomes. Eight weeks of in-home balance training, strength training, task-specific practice of functional activities including transfers and walking tasks, and family/carer education were provided. Both individuals demonstrated improvements that met or exceeded the established minimal detectible change values for gait speed and Timed Up and Go performance. Both also demonstrated improvements on Berg Balance Scale and Physical Performance Test performance, with 1 of the 2 individuals exceeding the established minimal detectible changes for both tests. Reductions in fall risk were evident in both cases. These cases provide proof-of-principle to support use of treatment-based classifications for physical therapy management in individuals with HD. Traditional classification of early-, mid-, and late-stage disease progression may not reflect patients' true capabilities; those with late-stage HD may be as responsive to interventions as those at an earlier disease stage.Video Abstract available for additional insights from the authors (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A172).

We cannot help but impute emotions to the behaviors of others, and constantly infer not only what others are feeling, but also why they feel that way. The comprehension of other people's emotional states is computationally complex and difficult, requiring the flexible, context-sensitive deployment of cognitive operations that encompass rapid orienting to, and recognition of, emotionally salient cues; classification of emotions into culturally-learned categories; and using an abstract theory of mind to reason about what caused the emotion, what future actions the person might be planning, and what we should do next in response. This review summarizes what neuroscience data - primarily functional neuroimaging data - has so far taught us about the cognitive architecture enabling emotion understanding in its various forms.

The purpose of this investigation is to determine the differences in quality of life (QOL) and clinical phenotype between patients with treatment resistant (TRD) and non-treatment resistant depression (NTRD). The severity, QOL, and cognitive function of 107 TRD and 173 NTRD patients were evaluated and calculated by the Hamilton Depression Scale-17 (HAMD-17), the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), and the P300 component of event-related potentials (ERP), respectively. The scores of HAMD-17 showed no significant statistical differences between TRD (28.8±6.7) and NTRD patients (29.3±8.2). The scores of anxiety/somatization (t=4.535, p=0.002), core item (t=3.514, p=0.005) and sleep item (t=6.079, p=0.000) were statistically significantly higher in TRD patients than in NTRD patients. The scores of physiological function (75.46±20.1, 88.23±21.4), body pain (61.39±17.1, 77.19±21.2) and social functioning (40.27±20.6, 58.82±22.1) in SF-36 were statistically significantly lower in TRD patients than in NTRD patients. The P300 latency of ERP was statistically significantly longer in TRD patients than in NTRD patients. Each item in the quality of life was negatively related to the items in HAMD-17 in TRD patients, especially for anxiety/somatization, and sleep items. The QOL was negatively related to core item and retardation item in NTRD patients, and the QOL was negatively related to the P300 latency of ERP in both groups, p<0.05. The sleep disorder, anxiety/somatization and core items were more serious in TRD patients than in NTRD patients, when the severity of depression was not significantly different. The QOL was significantly lower in TRD patients than in NTRD patients, the anxiety/somatization and sleep disorder were the main symptomatic factors that caused decreased QOL in TRD patients. The abilities of abstract generalization, thinking transfer, and performing a function, were significantly lower in TRD patients than in NTRD patients, which were important factors which caused decreased QOL in TRD patients.

Affective disorders are prevalent in different somatic conditions and influence somatic symptom bother and quality of life. Mood and anxiety disorders impact patients' compliance and adherence to treatment. This systematic review summarizes published studies on affective complaints in patients with oropharyngeal dysphagia (OD) in order to determine the quality of studies concerning any association of OD with symptoms of depression and/or anxiety. A literature search was carried out using electronic databases Embase, Medline, Web-of-science, PsycINFO, Cochrane Library, and Google scholar. Two reviewers made the preselecting cut by screening all articles on title and abstract and independently screened the full texts of this initial set of articles. Methodological quality of the studies that met the inclusion criteria was assessed independently. Twenty-six articles were included in the analysis after full-text screening and by applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria. All studies concluded that symptoms of depression were associated with impaired swallowing function, and 9 out of 12 studies concluded that symptoms of anxiety were associated with functional impairment of swallowing. The reviewers found heterogeneous outcomes and methodological limitations, which prevented data from pooling. Although no meta-analytic conclusions can be drawn, it appears that symptoms of anxiety and depression are common in OD. Caregivers have to be aware of this in order to detect affective comorbidity. Given that affective conditions influence patients' treatment adherence and compliance, integrated care approaches should be advocated in case of comorbidity. Studies on treatment effect are lacking and well-designed prospective research is needed.

Learning and memory storage requires neuronal plasticity induced in the hippocampus and other related brain areas, and this process is thought to rely on synchronized activity in neural networks. We used paired whole-cell recording in vivo to examine the synchronized activity that was induced in hippocampal CA1 neurons by associative fear learning. We found that both membrane potential synchronization and spike synchronization of CA1 neurons could be transiently enhanced after task learning, as observed on day 1 but not day 5. On day 1 after learning, CA1 neurons showed a decrease in firing threshold and rise times of suprathreshold membrane potential changes as well as an increase in spontaneous firing rates, possibly contributing to the enhancement of spike synchronization. The transient enhancement of CA1 neuronal synchronization may play important roles in the induction of neuronal plasticity for initial storage and consolidation of associative memory. The hippocampus is critical for memory acquisition and consolidation. This function requires activity- and experience-induced neuronal plasticity. It is known that neuronal plasticity is largely dependent on synchronized activity. As has been well characterized, repetitive correlated activity of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons can lead to long-term modifications at their synapses. Studies on network activity have also suggested that memory processing in the hippocampus may involve learning-induced changes of neuronal synchronization, as observed in vivo between hippocampal CA3 and CA1 networks as well as between the rhinal cortex and the hippocampus. However, further investigation of learning-induced synchronized activity in the hippocampus is needed for a full understanding of hippocampal memory processing. In this study, by performing paired whole-cell recording in vivo on CA1 pyramidal cells (PCs) in anaesthetized adult rats, we examined CA1 neuronal synchronization before and after associative fear learning. We first found in naive animals that there was a low level of membrane potential (MP) synchronization and spike synchronization of CA1 PCs. In conditioned animals, we found a significant enhancement of both MP synchronization and spike synchronization, as observed on day 1 after learning, and this enhancement was transient and not observed on day 5. Accompanying learning-induced synchronized activity was a decreased firing threshold and rise time of suprathreshold MP changes as well as an increased spontaneous firing rate, possibly contributing to the enhanced spike synchronization. The transiently enhanced CA1 neuronal synchronization may have important roles in generating neuronal plasticity for hippocampal storage and consolidation of associative memory traces.

'Living in Harmony with Nature' is a 2050 vision put forth by the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) which takes into consideration culture and locality of perceptions of nature and aspirations for its use. Considering that 54% of the world population lives in cities, where nature has been decimated, the role of rural communities, living within or in proximity of natural and semi natural areas, will effectively influence the fate of the 'remaining' nature while they engage in local development. Reconciling between growth and development on the one hand, and nature conservation on the other, necessitates an understanding of how rural communities, especially the youth, imprint their own ideas on landscapes and develop ownership over natural spaces. In order to extend the understanding of how harmony with nature is perceived in different parts of the world, this paper presents the findings of primary research involving a group of young people who live in rural areas in Lebanon, a country in the Arab Middle East. Participatory research based on photovoice methodology was conducted with 77 young people aged 7-16 and residing in five rural villages located in different parts of Lebanon. Photographs taken by participants indicated that for many, nature was not perceived literally i.e. woodlands, forests, plants, animals, etc…. Instead, the participants saw nature as part of agriculture and local culture. Nature was also seen as symbolic expression of the participants' inner state of mind. Narratives written to explain the photographs shed light on the perception of harmony with nature which focused on positive family experiences and relayed personal emotions, abstract, and holistic yet functional view of nature. Another recurring theme that emerged from photographs and narratives was the role of family members, in particular grandparents, as having a strong influence on the positive perceptions of nature.

The activation of the N-methyl D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is controlled by a glutamate-binding site and a distinct, independently regulated, co-agonist-binding site. In most brain regions, the NMDAR co-agonist is the astrocyte-derived gliotransmitter D-serine. We found that D-serine levels oscillate in mouse hippocampus as a function of wakefulness, in vitro and in vivo. This causes a full saturation of the NMDAR co-agonist site in the dark (active) phase that dissipates to sub-saturating levels during the light (sleep) phase, and influences learning performance throughout the day. We demonstrate that hippocampal astrocytes sense the wakefulness-dependent activity of septal cholinergic fibers through the α7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR), whose activation drives D-serine release. We conclude that astrocytes tune the gating of synaptic NMDARs to the vigilance state and demonstrate that this is directly relevant to schizophrenia, a disorder characterized by NMDAR and cholinergic hypofunctions. Indeed, bypassing cholinergic activity with a clinically tested α7nAChR agonist successfully enhances NMDAR activation. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Analytical rumination can be characterized as negative thoughts focused on searching for answers to personal problems. Failure to think concretely during autobiographical problem-solving (APS) is hypothesized to drive the inability of ruminators to generate effective solutions. Clarifying the brain correlates underlying APS deficits in depressed ruminators may identify novel biological targets for treatment. Forty participants (22 unmedicated depressed and 18 never-depressed adults) ranging in rumination engaged in APS and negative self-referential processing (NSP) of negative trait adjectives during fMRI. We contrasted activation during APS with activation during NSP to isolate regions contributing to APS. Rumination was associated with having generated fewer solutions during APS and with a failure to recruit the angular gyrus (AG) and the medial frontal gyrus (MFG) during APS. Rumination was associated with greater MFG activation during NSP and stronger connectivity between the AG and the rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC) during APS relative to NSP. Findings were not driven by clinical status. The use of an extreme groups approach can result in overestimation of effects sizes. Ruminators fail to recruit regions with the default network (DN) that support APS. In particular, a failure to recruit the AG during APS may drive the abstract thinking style previously shown to explain depressed ruminator's difficulty generating concrete solutions. Targeting this mechanism directly may reduce rumination.

The aim of this study was to investigate the comprehension of concrete, abstract and abstract emotional words in semantic variant primary progressive aphasia (svPPA), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and healthy elderly adults (HE) Three groups of participants (9 svPPA, 12 AD, 11 HE) underwent a general neuropsychological assessment, a similarity judgment task, and structural brain MRI. The three types of words were processed similarly in the group of AD participants. In contrast, patients in the svPPA group were significantly more impaired at processing concrete words than abstract words, while comprehension of abstract emotional words was in between. VBM analyses showed that comprehension of concrete words relative to abstract words was significantly correlated with atrophy in the left anterior temporal lobe. These results support the view that concrete words are disproportionately impaired in svPPA, and that concrete and abstract words may rely upon partly dissociable brain regions.

Depression and schizophrenia are two of the most serious psychiatric disorders. They share similar symptoms but the pathology-specific commonalities and differences remain unknown. This study was conducted to acquire a full picture of the functional alterations in schizophrenia and depression patients. The resting-state fMRI data from 20 patients with schizophrenia, 20 patients with depression and 20 healthy control subjects were collected. A data-driven approach that included local functional connectivity density (FCD) analysis combined with multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA) was used to compare the three groups. Based on the results of the MVPA, the local FCD value in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) can differentiate depression patients from schizophrenia patients. The patients with depression had a higher local FCD value in the medial and anterior parts of the OFC than the subjects in the other two groups, which suggested altered abstract and reward reinforces processing in depression patients. Subsequent functional connectivity analysis indicated that the connection in the prefrontal cortex was significantly lower in people with schizophrenia compared to people with depression and healthy controls. The systematically different medications for schizophrenia and depression may have different effects on functional connectivity. These results suggested that the resting-state functional connectivity pattern in the prefrontal cortex may be a transdiagnostic difference between depression and schizophrenia patients.

The aim of this study was to review scales used to assess anxiety, stress, and pain in dental patients undergoing a tooth extraction procedure and to propose a novel psycho-emotional rating scale based on the relevant literature and our own experience. An electronic literature search was conducted of the National Library of Medicine database MEDLINE (Ovid) and EMBASE databases between January 2005 and April 2016. Sequential screening at the title/abstract and full-text levels was performed. The review included all human prospective or retrospective follow-up studies and clinical trials, cohort studies, case-control studies, and case series that demonstrated at least one scale used to measure tooth extraction anxiety, stress, or pain. The search resulted in 32 articles meeting the inclusion criteria. None of the studies were found to be suitable in evaluating patient's stress, pain, and fear at once. Also, no scales were found that included both the doctor's and the patient's rating. In a few studies, vital signs as psycho-emotional status indicators were rated. Guidelines for a suitable questionnaire that could be used for rating the psycho-emotional status of patients undergoing tooth extraction are listed in the present research. Further studies are required for verification and validation of offered scale.

Stimuli appearing as visual distractors subsequently receive more negative affective evaluations than novel items or prior targets of attention. Leading accounts question whether this distractor devaluation effect occurs through evaluative codes that become associated with distractors as a mere artefact of attention-task instructions, or through affective consequences of attentional inhibition when applied to prevent distractor interference. Here we test opposing predictions arising from the evaluative-coding and devaluation-by-inhibition hypotheses using an electrophysiological marker of attentional inhibition in a task that requires participants to avoid interference from abstract-shape distractors presented while maintaining a uniquely-colored stimulus in memory. Consistent with prior research, distractors that matched the colour of the stimulus being held in memory elicited a Pd component of the event-related potential waveform, indicating that their processing was being actively suppressed. Subsequent affective evaluations revealed that memory-matching distractors also received more negative ratings than non-matching distractors or previously-unseen shapes. Moreover, Pd magnitude was greater on trials in which the memory-matching distractors were later rated negatively than on trials preceding positive ratings. These results support the devaluation-by-inhibition hypothesis and strongly suggest that fluctuations in stimulus inhibition are closely associated with subsequent affective evaluations. In contrast, none of the evaluative-coding based predictions were confirmed.

Cartoon characters are omnipresent in popular media. While few studies have scientifically investigated their processing, in computer graphics, efforts are made to increase realism. Yet, close approximations of reality have been suggested to evoke sometimes a feeling of eeriness, the "uncanny valley" effect. Here, we used high-density electroencephalography to investigate brain responses to professionally stylized happy, angry, and neutral character faces. We employed six face-stylization levels varying from abstract to realistic and investigated the N170, early posterior negativity (EPN), and late positive potential (LPP) event-related components. The face-specific N170 showed a u-shaped modulation, with stronger reactions towards both most abstract and most realistic compared to medium-stylized faces. For abstract faces, N170 was generated more occipitally than for real faces, implying stronger reliance on structural processing. Although emotional faces elicited highest amplitudes on both N170 and EPN, on the N170 realism and expression interacted. Finally, LPP increased linearly with face realism, reflecting activity increase in visual and parietal cortex for more realistic faces. Results reveal differential effects of face stylization on distinct face processing stages and suggest a perceptual basis to the uncanny valley hypothesis. They are discussed in relation to face perception, media design, and computer graphics.

The objective of this study is to describe major findings on posttraumatic growth (PTG) in cancer, by analyzing its various definitions, assessment tools, and examining its main psychological and clinical correlates. A search in relevant databases (PsycINFO, Pubmed, ProQuest, Scopus, and Web of Science) was performed using descriptors related to the positive reactions in cancer. Articles were screened by title, abstract, and full text. Seventy-two met the inclusion criteria. Most articles (46%) focused on breast cancer, used the PTG inventory (76%), and had a cross-sectional design (68%). The PTG resulted inversely associated with depressive and anxious symptoms and directly related to hope, optimism, spirituality, and meaning. Illness-related variables have been poorly investigated compared to psychological ones. Articles found no relationship between cancer site, cancer surgery, cancer recurrence, and PTG. Some correlations emerged with the elapsed time since diagnosis, type of oncological treatment received, and cancer stage. Only few studies differentiated illness-related-life-threatening stressors from other forms of trauma, and the potentially different mechanisms connected with PTG outcome in cancer patients. The evaluation of PTG in cancer patients is worthy, because it may promote a better adaption to the illness. However, many investigations do not explicitly refer to the medical nature of the trauma, and they may have not completely captured the full spectrum of positive reactions in cancer patients. Future research should better investigate issues such as health attitudes; the risks of future recurrences; and the type, quality, and efficacy of medical treatments received and their influence on PTG in cancer patients.

Since the advent of the concept of empathy in the scientific literature, it has been hypothesized, although not necessarily empirically verified, that empathic processes are essential to aesthetic experiences of visual art. We tested how the ability to "feel into" ("Einfühlung") emotional content-a central aspect of art empathy theories-affects the bodily responses to and the subjective judgments of representational and abstract paintings. The ability to feel into was measured by a standardized pre-survey on "emotional contagion"-the ability to pick up and mirror, or in short to "feel into", emotions, which often overlaps with higher general or interpersonal empathetic abilities. Participants evaluated the artworks on several aesthetic dimensions (liking, valence, moving, and interest), while their bodily reactions indicative of empathetic engagement (facial electromyography-EMG, and skin conductance responses-SCR) were recorded. High compared to low emotion contagion participants showed both more congruent and more intense bodily reactions (EMG and SCR) and aesthetic evaluations (higher being moved, valence, and interest) and also liked the art more. This was largely the case for both representational and abstract art, although stronger with the representational category. Our findings provide tentative evidence for recent arguments by art theorists for a close "empathic" mirroring of emotional content. We discuss this interpretation, as well as a potential tie between emotion contagion and a general increase in emotion intensity, both of which may impact, in tandem, the experience and evaluation of art.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Studies show that psychological capital (PsyCap) is a protective factor against psychological distress, such as depressive symptoms. However, few have attempted to address the role of coping styles in the relationship between PsyCap and psychological distress. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Our study found moderate levels of PsyCap among nurses in China. Among the subcategories of PsyCap, optimism and hope were most highly correlated with psychological distress. Psychological distress was positively associated with negative coping and negatively associated with positive coping. This study confirmed the partial mediating effect of coping styles in PsyCap and psychological distress among Chinese nurses. In other words, this study found direct and indirect effects of PsyCap on psychological distress mediated via coping styles. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The significant mediating effect of negative and positive coping styles between PsyCap and psychological distress has implications for hospital administrators, especially nurse leaders. Effective strategies should be implemented to improve PsyCap and coping styles among Chinese nurses, and alleviate psychological distress. Optimism and hope should be emphasized in PsyCap investment. Different styles of coping are influenced and modified by teaching and experience. Therefore, it is essential that nurse managers organize educational and training programmes to provide nurses with relative coping knowledge and techniques, and improve their coping ability. Several studies suggest that coping styles are affected by social support. Thus, nurse managers should assist nurses with social support and enhance coping strategies to reduce psychological distress. Introduction PsyCap includes four categories namely self-efficacy, hope, optimism and resilience. Research has demonstrated that PsyCap and coping styles affect current psychological distress. Nevertheless, few studies have explored the role of coping styles in PsyCap and psychological distress. Aim This study investigated the role of coping styles as a mediator in PsyCap and psychological distress among Chinese nurses. Methods Participants included 538 nurses who completed self-report questionnaires assessing PsyCap, coping styles and psychological distress. Linear regression analyses were used to explore the role of coping styles. Results PsyCap, coping styles and psychological distress were significantly correlated. Among the subcategories of PsyCap, optimism and hope were most highly correlated with psychological distress. Coping styles is a partial mediator of PsyCap and psychological distress. Implications for mental health nursing The significant role of negative and positive coping styles in PsyCap and psychological distress has implications for hospital administrators, especially nurse leaders. Effective strategies should be implemented to improve PsyCap and coping styles among Chinese nurses, to alleviate psychological distress. Optimism and hope should be the focus of the improvement. Different styles of coping are developed from education and experience. Therefore, it is necessary for nurse managers to organize educational and training programmes to improve coping skills among nurses. Studies suggest that coping styles are affected by social support. Thus, nurse managers should also assist nurses with social support and enhance coping strategies to reduce psychological distress.

Shared care has been used in the management of many chronic conditions with the assumption that it delivers better care than primary or specialty care alone; however, little is known about the effectiveness of shared care. To determine the effectiveness of shared care health service interventions designed to improve the management of chronic disease across the primary/specialty care interface. This is an update of a previously published review.Secondary questions include the following:1. Which shared care interventions or portions of shared care interventions are most effective?2. What do the most effective systems have in common? We searched MEDLINE, Embase and the Cochrane Library to 12 October 2015. One review author performed the initial abstract screen; then two review authors independently screened and selected studies for inclusion. We considered randomised controlled trials (RCTs), non-randomised controlled trials (NRCTs), controlled before-after studies (CBAs) and interrupted time series analyses (ITS) evaluating the effectiveness of shared care interventions for people with chronic conditions in primary care and community settings. The intervention was compared with usual care in that setting. Two review authors independently extracted data from the included studies, evaluated study quality and judged the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. We conducted a meta-analysis of results when possible and carried out a narrative synthesis of the remainder of the results. We presented the results in a 'Summary of findings' table, using a tabular format to show effect sizes for all outcome types. We identified 42 studies of shared care interventions for chronic disease management (N = 18,859), 39 of which were RCTs, two CBAs and one an NRCT. Of these 42 studies, 41 examined complex multi-faceted interventions and lasted from six to 24 months. Overall, our confidence in results regarding the effectiveness of interventions ranged from moderate to high certainty. Results showed probably few or no differences in clinical outcomes overall with a tendency towards improved blood pressure management in the small number of studies on shared care for hypertension, chronic kidney disease and stroke (mean difference (MD) 3.47, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.68 to 5.25)(based on moderate-certainty evidence). Mental health outcomes improved, particularly in response to depression treatment (risk ratio (RR) 1.40, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.22 to 1.62; six studies, N = 1708) and recovery from depression (RR 2.59, 95% CI 1.57 to 4.26; 10 studies, N = 4482) in studies examining the 'stepped care' design of shared care interventions (based on high-certainty evidence). Investigators noted modest effects on mean depression scores (standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.29, 95% CI -0.37 to -0.20; six studies, N = 3250). Differences in patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs), processes of care and participation and default rates in shared care services were probably limited (based on moderate-certainty evidence). Studies probably showed little or no difference in hospital admissions, service utilisation and patient health behaviours (with evidence of moderate certainty). This review suggests that shared care improves depression outcomes and probably has mixed or limited effects on other outcomes. Methodological shortcomings, particularly inadequate length of follow-up, may account in part for these limited effects. Review findings support the growing evidence base for shared care in the management of depression, particularly stepped care models of shared care. Shared care interventions for other conditions should be developed within research settings, with account taken of the complexity of such interventions and awareness of the need to carry out longer studies to test effectiveness and sustainability over time.

There is considerable lack of evidence concerning the linguistic and cognitive skills underpinning abstract vocabulary acquisition. The present study considers the role of emotional valence in providing an embodied learning experience in which to anchor abstract meanings. First, analyses of adult ratings of age-of-acquisition, concreteness and valence demonstrate that abstract words acquired early tend to be emotionally valenced. Second, auditory Lexical Decision accuracies of children aged 6-7, 8-9, and 10-11 years (n = 20 per group) complement these analyses, demonstrating that emotional valence facilitates processing of abstract words, but not concrete. These findings provide the first evidence that young, school-aged children are sensitive to emotional valence and that this facilitates acquisition of abstract words.

Cognitive tasks recruit multiple brain regions. Understanding how these regions influence each other (the network structure) is an important step to characterize the neural basis of cognitive processes. Often, limited evidence is available to restrict the range of hypotheses a priori, and techniques that sift efficiently through a large number of possible network structures are needed (network discovery). This article introduces a novel modelling technique for network discovery (Dynamic Network Modelling or DNM) that builds on ideas from Granger Causality and Dynamic Causal Modelling introducing three key changes: (1) efficient network discovery is implemented with statistical tests on the consistency of model parameters across participants, (2) the tests take into account the magnitude and sign of each influence, and (3) variance explained in independent data is used as an absolute (rather than relative) measure of the quality of the network model. In this article, we outline the functioning of DNM, we validate DNM in simulated data for which the ground truth is known, and we report an example of its application to the investigation of influences between regions during emotion recognition, revealing top-down influences from brain regions encoding abstract representations of emotions (medial prefrontal cortex and superior temporal sulcus) onto regions engaged in the perceptual analysis of facial expressions (occipital face area and fusiform face area) when participants are asked to switch between reporting the emotional valence and the age of a face.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THIS SUBJECT?: Young people's mental health is a concern to people around the world. Good emotional health promotes mental health and protects against mental illness, but we need to know more about how to help young people look after their emotional health. We are learning that research is better if the public are involved in it, including children and young people. Therefore, we need to listen carefully to what young people have to say. In this paper, we describe some research that involved young people from start to finish. We were asking what kind of emotional health support would be useful to them. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We developed a useful way to involve young people in research so their voice can be heard. Young people like to use the Internet to find emotional health support and information, but need to know which web sites they can trust. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Our method of bringing young people together to tell us their views was successful. It is important to explore ways to help young people judge the quality of emotional health web sites. Introduction Youth mental health is a global concern. Emotional health promotes mental health and protects against mental illness. Youth value self-care for emotional health, but we need better understanding of how to help them look after their emotional health. Participatory research is relevant, since meaningful engagement with youth via participatory research enhances the validity and relevance of research findings and supports young people's rights to involvement in decisions that concern them. Aim We aimed to develop a participatory approach for involving youth in research about their emotional health support preferences. Method Our team included a young expert-by-experience. We developed a qualitative, participatory research design. Eleven youth (16-18 years) participated in focus groups, followed immediately by a nominal group exercise in which they analysed the data, thus enhancing methodological rigour. Results This process highlighted youth perspectives on self-care strategies for emotional health. Discussion and implications for practice Our simple participatory research approach generated trustworthy and credible findings, which accurately reflect youth perspectives and are consistent with the literature, endorsing our method. Young people said that they want reassurances of quality and safety when accessing digital mental health resources. These findings can inform future development of youth-oriented digital mental health resources.

This article demonstrates the relevance of animals to medical sociology by arguing that pet owners' accounts of veterinary decision-making can highlight key sociological themes which are important to both human and animal health. Based on semi-structured interviews, the article argues that interspecies 'kinship' allows for the extension of sociological claims regarding altruism, self-interest and mutuality from human blood donation to companion animal blood 'donation'. Furthermore, this study extends sociological understanding of the human-animal bond by showing how the dog's status as kin meant they were expected to donate blood, and that the act of donation itself represents an important opportunity for family 'display'. However, owners who do not or cannot donate blood themselves describe pet blood donation as an opportunity to lessen associated feelings of guilt or obligation through 'doing good by proxy'. These findings raise critical sociological and ethical questions concerning the risks and benefits of donation, and for how we understand third-party decision making. Finally, the article argues for the close entanglement of human and animal health, and concludes that sociologists of health and medicine should explore the radical possibility that decision-making in healthcare more generally might be influenced by experiences at the veterinary clinic, and vice versa. (A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA).

This article has been retracted: please see Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal (https://www.elsevier.com/about/our-business/policies/article-withdrawal). This article has been retracted at the request of the authors and Editor-in-Chief. The Authors have recently discovered an error in the database that affects the results and, consequently, the discussion, conclusions and abstract of this article on the effects of perceptual load and task-irrelevant facial expression during a target-letter discrimination task in psychotic disorders. The error was discovered by the Authors during the analysis of new data using the same experimental task, but collected from a distinct clinical sample, and involves a systematic error in the database: pictures of one actor were coded as depicting the same valence (angry, happy, neutral) during the programming of the experimental task, regardless of the real facial expression portraited by the picture in each trial. As a result, the information provided by the ‘Emotion’ variable in the database, created by the E-Prime software for each participant during the performance of the task, was not correct. Because the Authors used the ‘Emotion’ variable to perform the statistical analysis, the results of lower accuracy for individuals diagnosed with psychotic disorders in trials where the task-irrelevant stimuli are happy facial expressions - as revealed by a significant interaction between group and facial expression (p = .016) and between group, perceptual load and facial expression (p = .027) - are not correct, thus partially affecting the discussion, conclusions and abstract of the manuscript. Besides the ‘Emotion’ variable, the raw database contains the filename of the picture presented in each trial. Therefore, the Authors were able to correct the error and to re-analyse the data, and will proceed with the submission for publication of the corrected version of the manuscript. The error had no influence on the design and procedure of the experimental task, as the order of the pictures was fully randomized per participant. The Authors apologize for the inconvenience caused by these mistakes and agree with the retraction. The Authors advise all researchers to pay special attention when scripting/coding the stimuli to be used in the experimental tasks, and to confirm all scripting/coding with independent researchers, whenever possible, to prevent mistakes (Strand, 2021). The Journal apologizes that these errors were not detected during peer review.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The GQ-6 is one of the most widely used self-report questionnaires to evaluate the level of gratitude among adults. The GQ-5 appears suitable for adolescents. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We developed a Chinese version of the GQ-5 and examined evidence for its reliability and validity. Results demonstrated adequate reliability and validity, indicating that it is appropriate for the assessment of gratitude in Chinese adolescents. In addition, Chinese early adolescent females reported higher gratitude than adolescent males. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Screening adolescents who have lower levels of gratitude through the GQ-5 could help identify students who may benefit from empirically validated interventions to promote higher levels of gratitude in an effort to promote positive psychosocial and academic outcomes. Background This study was conducted to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Chinese version of the 5-item Gratitude Questionnaire (GQ-5). Method The sample consisted of 2093 middle school students (46.8% males) in mainland China. Confirmatory factor analysis and multigroup confirmatory factor analysis were performed to examine the factor structure and the measurement equivalence across gender. The convergent validity, Cronbach's α and mean interitem correlations of the GQ-5 were also evaluated. Results The results provided evidence of internal consistency reliability through a Cronbach's α of 0.812 and a mean interitem correlation of 0.463 for the total sample. The results also supported a one-dimensional factor structure. In addition, convergent validity was assessed by statistically significant positive correlations between the GQ-5 and the two subscales of the Children's Hope Scale (CHS) and the Brief Multidimensional Students' Life Satisfaction Scale (BMSLSS) total score. Finally, multigroup confirmatory factor analysis also demonstrated measurement equivalence across gender. Subsequent analyses of latent mean revealed gender differences in early adolescent male and female students. Conclusions The Chinese version of the GQ-5 appears to be a reliable and valid measure of gratitude among Chinese early adolescents. Early adolescent female students reported higher gratitude than early adolescent male students.

Theories of neuroaesthetics assume, that looking at traces of actions used in creating artwork (e.g. brush marks) is associated with a simulation of these actions in the observer's sensorimotor-cortex. The aim of the current study is to dissociate the activation of the sensorimotor-cortex by the observation of action traces from associated visual processes. Twenty-eight participants observed handmade graphics (acrylic paint on paper) of different complexity (line, triangle, shape of a house) and computer-generated counterparts. Central mu-activity, as an index of sensorimotor-cortex activity, and occipital alpha-activity, as an index of visual cortex activity were recorded in the 8-13Hz EEG-band. In line with the hypothesis, mu-activity at electrode C4 is sensitive for the complexity of handmade (p=0.001), but not computer-generated graphics (p>0.500). In contrast, occipital alpha-activity is sensitive for the complexity of both handmade and computer-generated graphics (p<0.001). Furthermore, the more empathic the participants rated themselves, the stronger mu-suppression was induced by handmade graphics compared to computer-generated graphics (electrode C4; r=-0.612, p=0.001). These results support the involvement of the sensorimotor-cortex in the recognition of action traces and strengthen evidence that individuals scoring high in emotional empathy feature a particularly responsive mirror neuron system.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) is a widely used measurement for psychological symptoms and distress. Some previous studies have shown that the DASS-21 can accurately measure symptoms of anxiety, depression and stress, while other studies have indicated that the DASS-21 mainly measures overall distress. The factor structure of the DASS-21 is important and debated since if affects interpretations of findings. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: In this study, the DASS-21 was translated into Swedish and evaluated in three diverse samples. The DASS-21 subscales of Depression and Anxiety correlated significantly with corresponding criteria instruments. The DASS-21 Stress subscale showed more diverse associations with psychological distress. The analyses supported a bifactor model of the DASS-21 with three specific factors of depression, anxiety and stress as well as a general distress factor. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The results show that the DASS-21 may be used to measure unique symptoms of depression, anxiety and, with some caveat, stress as well as overall psychological distress. This study confirms that the DASS-21 is theoretically sound instrument that is feasible for both research and clinical practice. The DASS-21 can be an accessible tool for screening and evaluation in first-line mental health services. Introduction There is a constant need for theoretically sound and valid self-report instruments for measuring psychological distress. Previous studies have shown that the Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21) is theoretically sound, but there have been some inconsistent results regarding its factor structure. Aims The aim of the present study was to investigate and elucidate the factor structure and convergent validity of the DASS-21. Methods A total of 624 participants recruited from student, primary care and psychotherapy populations. The factor structure of the DASS-21 was assessed by confirmatory factor analyses and the convergent validity by investigating its unique correlations with other psychiatric instruments. Results A bifactor structure with depression, anxiety, stress and a general factor provided the best fit indices for the DASS-21. The convergent validity was adequate for the Depression and Anxiety subscales but more ambiguous for the Stress subscale. Discussion The present study overall supports the validity and factor structure of the DASS-21. Implications for practice The DASS-21 can be used to measure symptoms of depression and anxiety as well as overall distress. It can be useful for mental health nurses, and other first-line psychiatric professionals, in need of a short, feasible and valid instrument in everyday care.

To estimate the prevalence of painful sex among women in Britain, and to explore associated sexual, relationship and health factors that should be considered in assessment. Multi-stage, clustered and stratified population probability sample survey, using computer-assisted self-interview. Sample frame was the British Postcode Address File. Participants interviewed at home between 2010 and 2012. A total of 15 162 adults aged 16-74 years (8869 women). Data reported from 6669 sexually active women. Age-adjusted logistic regressions to examine associations between painful sex and indicators of sexual, relational, mental and physical health. Physical pain as a result of sex for ≥3 months in the past year, plus measures of symptom severity. Painful sex was reported by 7.5% (95% CI 6.7-8.3) of sexually active women, of whom one-quarter experienced symptoms very often or always, for ≥6 months, and causing distress. Reporting painful sex was strongly associated with other sexual function problems, notably vaginal dryness (age adjusted odds ratio 7.9; 6.17-10.12), anxiety about sex (6.34; 4.76-8.46) and lacking enjoyment in sex (6.12; 4.81-7.79). It was associated with sexual relationship factors [such as not sharing same level of interest in sex (2.56; 1.97-3.33)], as well as with adverse experiences such as non-volitional sex (2.17; 1.68-2.80). Associations were also found with measures of psychological and physical health, including depressive symptoms (1.68; 1.28-2.21). Painful sex is reported by a sizeable minority of women in Britain. Health professionals should be supported to undertake holistic assessment and treatment which takes account of the sexual, relationship and health context of symptoms. Painful sex-reported by 7.5% of women in Britain-is linked to poorer sexual, physical, relational and mental health.

concepts ("freedom") differ from concrete ones ("cat"), as they do not have a bounded, identifiable, and clearly perceivable referent. The way in which abstract concepts are represented has recently become a topic of intense debate, especially because of the spread of the embodied approach to cognition. Within this framework concepts derive their meaning from the same perception, motor, and emotional systems that are involved in online interaction with the world. Most of the evidence in favor of this view, however, has been gathered with regard to concrete concepts. Given the relevance of abstract concepts for higher-order cognition, we argue that being able to explain how they are represented is a crucial challenge that any theory of cognition needs to address. The aim of this article is to offer a critical review of the latest theories on abstract concepts, focusing on embodied ones. Starting with theories that question the distinction between abstract and concrete concepts, we review theories claiming that abstract concepts are grounded in metaphors, in situations and introspection, and in emotion. We then introduce multiple representation theories, according to which abstract concepts evoke both sensorimotor and linguistic information. We argue that the most promising approach is given by multiple representation views that combine an embodied perspective with the recognition of the importance of linguistic and social experience. We conclude by discussing whether or not a single theoretical framework might be able to explain all different varieties of abstract concepts. (PsycINFO Database Record

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) survivors often report difficulties with understanding and producing paralinguistic cues, as well as understanding and producing basic communication tasks. However, a large range of communicative deficits in this population cannot be adequately explained by linguistic impairment. The review examines prosodic processing performance post-TBI, its relationship with injury severity, brain injury localization, recovery and co-occurring psychiatric or mental health issues post-TBI METHODS: A systematic review using several databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane, LLBA (Linguistics and Language Behaviour Abstract) and Web of Science (January 1980 to May 2015), as well as a manual search of the cited references of the selected articles and the search cited features of PubMed was performed. The search was limited to comparative analyses between individuals who had a TBI and non-injured individuals (control). The review included studies assessing prosodic processing outcomes after TBI has been formally diagnosed. Articles that measured communication disorders, prosodic impairments, aphasia, and recognition of various aspects of prosody were included. Methods of summary included study characteristics, sample characteristics, demographics, auditory processing task, age at injury, brain localization of the injury, time elapsed since TBI, reports between TBI and mental health, socialization and employment difficulties. There were no limitations to the population size, age or gender. Results were reported according to the PRISMA guidelines. Two raters evaluated the quality of the articles in the search, extracted data using data abstraction forms and assessed the external and internal validity of the studies included using STROBE criteria. Agreement between the two raters was very high (Cohen's kappa = .89, P < 0.001). Results are reported according to the PRISMA guidelines. A systematic review of 5212 records between 1980 and 2015 revealed 206 potentially eligible studies and 8 case-control studies (3 perspective and 5 retrospective) met inclusion and exclusion criteria for content and quality. Performance on prosodic processing tasks was found to be impaired among all participants with a history of TBI (ages ranged from 8 to 70 years old), compared to those with no history of TBI, in all eight studies examined. Compared with controls, individuals with a history of TBI had statistically significantly slower reaction time in identifying emotions from prosody and impaired processing of prosodic information that is muffled, non-sense, competing, or in conflict (prosody versus semantics). Heterogeneous findings on correlations between specific brain locations and prosodic processing impairment were reported. Psychiatric issues, employment status or social integration post-TBI were scarcely reported but, when reported, they co-occurred with a history of TBI and prosodic impairments. The current review confirms the relationship between impaired prosodic processing and history of TBI. Future studies should collect and report comprehensive details about severity of TBI, location of brain injury and time elapsed since injury, as they could key influence factors to the extent of prosodic processing impairments and recovery from auditory processing impairments post-TBI. The exploration of prosodic processing tasks as a possible neuropsychological marker of TBI diagnosis and recovery is warranted.

Recent studies on logical reasoning have suggested that people are intuitively aware of the logical validity of syllogisms or that they intuitively detect conflict between heuristic responses and logical norms via slight changes in their feelings. According to logical intuition studies, logically valid or heuristic logic no-conflict reasoning is fluently processed and induces positive feelings without conscious awareness. One criticism states that such effects of logicality disappear when confounding factors such as the content of syllogisms are controlled. The present study used abstract propositions and tested whether people intuitively detect logical value. Experiment 1 presented four logical propositions (conjunctive, biconditional, conditional, and material implications) regarding a target case and asked the participants to rate the extent to which they liked the statement. Experiment 2 tested the effects of matching bias, as well as intuitive logic, on the reasoners' feelings by manipulating whether the antecedent or consequent (or both) of the conditional was affirmed or negated. The results showed that both logicality and matching bias affected the reasoners' feelings, and people preferred logically true targets over logically false ones for all forms of propositions. These results suggest that people intuitively detect what is true from what is false during abstract reasoning. Additionally, a Bayesian mixed model meta-analysis of conditionals indicated that people's intuitive interpretation of the conditional "if p then q" fits better with the conditional probability, q given p.

Avoidance behavior can have deleterious consequences on health and quality of life for persons with Parkinson disease (PD); for this reason, it is important to identify potentially mitigable characteristics. We compared the characteristics of individuals with PD who exhibit fear of falling (FOF) avoidance behavior with those who do not. Fifty-nine participants with PD were classified as avoiders (n = 27) or nonavoiders (n = 32) by using the Fear of Falling Avoidance Behavior Questionnaire and compared across 5 domains: demographic characteristics; PD-specific symptoms (subtype, Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale [MDS-UPDRS], Hoehn and Yahr Scale, Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 [PDQ-39]); balance and falls (fall history, Berg Balance Scale [BBS], Activities-Specific Balance Confidence [ABC] Scale, Impact of Events Scale, Consequences of Falling Questionnaire [CoFQ]); physical performance (30 Second Sit-to-Stand Test, Timed Up and Go Test, physical activity monitoring); and psychological factors (Zung Anxiety Scale, Beck Depression Inventory [BDI]). There were no differences between avoiders and nonavoiders for demographic characteristics and fall history (Ps > 0.272). Avoiders had worse MDS-UPDRS (Ps < 0.014) and PDQ-39 scores (Ps < 0.028). Avoiders had poorer balance performance (BBS, P = 0.003), lower balance confidence (ABC, P < 0.001), and more fall catastrophization (CoFQ, P < 0.001). Avoiders reported more depression (P = 0.015) and anxiety (P = 0.028). PD FOF avoiders had more involved symptoms and scored lower on balance and physical performance measures. In addition, they reported greater psychological stress. Several potentially mitigable characteristics of those with FOF avoidance behavior were identified.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A153).

Worry is characterized by a predominance of verbal thinking and relatively little mental imagery. This cognitive bias of verbal and abstract processing has been found to impair emotional processing of worry topics so that worrisome thoughts are maintained. On the other hand, engaging in mental imagery during the worry process fosters emotional processing of worry themes. In the present study, we examined whether training high worriers (n=71) to use more mental imagery in their everyday lives is an effective intervention to reduce pathological worry. Results indicated that our novel training in mental imagery (TMI) led to a significant reduction of worry and impairment, assessed both one and five weeks after the training. Furthermore, in highly anxious participants TMI had beneficial effects on controllability of worry, state anxiety, and positive mood. Theoretical and clinical implications of our findings and methodological limitations of this proof-of-principle study are discussed.

Jean Piaget was a master at observing the routine behaviors children produce as they go from knowing less to knowing more about at a task, and making inferences not only about how children understand the task at each point, but also about how they progress from one point to the next. This article examines a routine behavior that Piaget overlooked-the spontaneous gestures speakers produce as they explain their solutions to a problem. These gestures are not mere hand waving. They reflect ideas that the speaker has about the problem, often ideas that are not found in that speaker's talk. Gesture can do more than reflect ideas-it can also change them. Observing the gestures that others produce can change a learner's ideas, as can producing one's own gestures. In this sense, gesture behaves like any other action. But gesture differs from many other actions in that it also promotes generalization of new ideas. Gesture represents the world rather than directly manipulating the world (gesture does not move objects around) and is thus a special kind of action. As a result, the mechanisms by which gesture and action promote learning may differ. Because it is both an action and a representation, gesture can serve as a bridge between the two and thus be a powerful tool for learning abstract ideas. WIREs Cogn Sci 2017, 8:e1368. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1368 For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs website.

To identify neurocognitive and sociodemographic variables that could be associated with clinical response to three modalities of treatment for depression, as well as variables that predicted superior response to one treatment over the others. The present study derives from a research project in which depressed patients (n=272) received one of three treatments - long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (n=90), fluoxetine therapy (n=91), or a combination thereof (n=91) - over a 24-month period. Sociodemographic variables were not found to be predictive. Six predictive neurocognitive variables were identified: three prognostic variables related to working memory and abstract reasoning; one prescriptive variable related to working memory; and two variables found to be moderators. The results of this study indicate subgroups of patients who might benefit from specific therapeutic strategies and subgroups that seem to respond well to long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy and combined therapy. The moderators found suggest that abstract reasoning and processing speed may influence the magnitude and/or direction of clinical improvement.

This currently recruiting randomized controlled trial investigates the effects of integrating components of Emotion-Focused Therapy (EFT) into Psychological Therapy (PT), an integrative form of cognitive-behavioral therapy in a manner that is directly mirroring common integrative practice in the sense of assimilative integration. Aims of the study are to understand how both, an existing therapy approach as well as the elements to be integrated, are affected by the integration and to clarify the role of emotional processing as a mediator of therapy outcome. A total of 130 adults with a diagnosed unipolar depressive, anxiety or adjustment disorder (seeking treatment at a psychotherapy outpatient clinic) are randomized to either treatment as usual (PT) with integrated emotion-focused components (TAU + EFT) or PT (TAU). Primary outcome variables are psychopathology and symptom severity at the end of therapy and at follow up; secondary outcome variables are interpersonal problems, psychological wellbeing, quality of life, attainment of individual therapy goals, and emotional competency. Furthermore, process variables such as the quality of the therapeutic relationship are studied as well as aptitude-treatment interactions. Variables are assessed at baseline, after 8 and 16 sessions, at the end of therapy, after 25 ± 3 sessions, and at 6, 12 and 36 month follow-up. Underlying mechanisms of change are investigated. Statistical analyses will be conducted using the appropriate multilevel approaches, mainly two-level regression and growth analysis. The results of this study will indicate whether the integration of emotion-focused elements into treatment as usual increases the effectiveness of Psychological Therapy. If advantages are found, which may be limited to particular variables or subgroups of patients, recommendations for a systematic integration, and caveats if also disadvantages are detected, can be formulated. On a more abstract level, a cognitive behavioral (represented by PT) and humanistic/experiential (represented by EFT) approach will be integrated. It must be emphasized that mimicking common practice in the development and continued education of psychotherapists, EFT is not integrated as a whole, but only elements of EFT that are considered particularly important, and can be trained in an 8-day training plus supervision of therapies. ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02822443 , 22 June 2016, retrospectively registered.

Dating back to the case of Phineas Gage, decades of neuropsychological research have shown that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is crucial to both real-world social functioning and abstract decision making in the laboratory (see, e.g., Stuss et al., ; Bechara et al., 1994; Damasio et al., ). Previous research has shown that the relationship between the laterality of individuals' vmPFC lesions and neuropsychological performance is moderated by their sex, whereby there are more severe social, emotional, and decision-making impairments in men with right-side vmPFC lesions and in women with left-side vmPFC lesions (Tranel et al., 2005; Sutterer et al., 2015). We conducted a selective review of studies examining the effect of vmPFC lesions on emotion and decision making and found further evidence of sex-related differences in the lateralization of function not only in the vmPFC but also in other neurological structures associated with decision making and emotion. This Mini-Review suggests that both sex and laterality effects warrant more careful consideration in the scientific literature. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

The evaluative conditioning (EC) effect refers to the change in the liking of a neutral stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS) due to its pairing with another stimulus (unconditioned stimulus, US). We examined whether the extinction rate of the EC effect is moderated by feature-specific attention allocation. In two experiments, CSs were abstract Gabor patches varying along two orthogonal, perceptual dimensions (i.e. spatial frequency and orientation). During the acquisition phase, one of these dimensions was predictive of the valence of the USs. During the extinction phase, CSs were presented alone and participants were asked to categorise the CSs either according to their valence, the perceptual dimension that was task-relevant during the acquisition phase, or a perceptual dimension that was task-irrelevant during the acquisition phase. As predicted, explicit valence measures revealed a linear increase in the extinction rate of the EC effect as participants were encouraged to assign attention to non-evaluative stimulus information during the extinction phase. In Experiment 1, Affect Misattribution Paradigm (AMP) data mimicked this pattern of results, although the effect just missed conventional levels of significance. In Experiment 2, the AMP data revealed an increase of the EC effect if attention was focused on evaluative stimulus information. Potential mechanisms to explain these findings are discussed.

High-level cognitive and emotional experience arises from brain activity, but the specific brain substrates for religious and spiritual euphoria remain unclear. We demonstrate using functional magnetic resonance imaging scans in 19 devout Mormons that a recognizable feeling central to their devotional practice was reproducibly associated with activation in nucleus accumbens, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and frontal attentional regions. Nucleus accumbens activation preceded peak spiritual feelings by 1-3 s and was replicated in four separate tasks. Attentional activation in the anterior cingulate and frontal eye fields was greater in the right hemisphere. The association of abstract ideas and brain reward circuitry may interact with frontal attentional and emotive salience processing, suggesting a mechanism whereby doctrinal concepts may come to be intrinsically rewarding and motivate behavior in religious individuals.

To provide information about the effect of psychiatric comorbidities on wound healing in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). This continuing education activity is intended for physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and nurses with an interest in skin and wound care. After participating in this educational activity, the participant should be better able to:1. Discuss the connection between DM and the development of psychiatric comorbidities.2. Identify the drugs recommended in the treatment of these psychiatric comorbidities.3. List cautions and contraindications related to the drugs discussed. In patients with diabetes mellitus type 2, psychiatric comorbidities such as depressive and anxiety disorders are 60% or more prevalent than in the general population. The severity of mental illness and the duration of diabetes have been shown to correlate with worsening glycemic control, thus impeding wound healing. A retrospective chart review was conducted in all patients with diabetes mellitus admitted to the wound service with prior or current psychiatric symptoms of anxiety, depression, or cognitive impairment. A psychopharmacologic protocol was developed based on the clinical data collected and treatment parameters used by the behavioral health consultation liaison service.

Depression is a prevalent condition in pregnancy affecting about 10% of women. Maternal depression has been associated with an increase in preterm births (PTB), low birthweight and fetal growth restriction, and postnatal complications. Available treatments for depressive disorders are psychotherapeutic interventions and antidepressant medications including selective serotonin inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRI use during pregnancy has been associated with several fetal and neonatal complications; so far, however, the risk of PTB in women using SSRIs during pregnancy is still a subject of debate. To evaluate the risk of preterm birth (PTB) in cases of exposure to SSRIs during pregnancy. Electronic databases (MEDLINE, Scopus, ClinicalTrials.gov, the PROSPERO International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) were searched from their inception until May 2015 with the use of a combination of the following text words 'depression', 'pregnancy', 'exposure', 'antidepressant', 'SSRI', 'selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor', 'preterm birth', 'small for gestational age' and 'prematurity'. We included studies evaluating the effect of SSRIs exposure in utero and pregnancy outcomes. All cohort and case-control studies were eligible to be included if they reported the incidence of PTB after any exposure to SSRIs and had a comparison group of unexposed pregnant women. Studies without a control group were excluded. The primary outcome was the incidence of PTB <37 weeks. Subgroup analysis of studies in which controls were defined as women with depression but without SSRI exposure during pregnancy were planned. Eight studies (1 237 669 women) were included: 93 982 in the exposure group and 1 143 687 in the control group. After adjusting for confounders, the incidence of PTB was significantly higher in the group of women treated with SSRIs compared with controls (i.e. both women with depression but without SSRI exposure and women without depression) (adjusted OR (aOR) 1.24, 95% CI 1.09-1.41). In the subgroup analysis of studies in which controls were defined as women with depression but without SSRI exposure during pregnancy, an increased risk of PTB (6.8 versus 5.8%; OR 1.17, 95% CI 1.10-1.25) in the SSRI group was found compared with controls (i.e. depressed women treated with psychotherapy alone). Women who received SSRIs during pregnancy had a significantly higher risk of developing PTB compared with controls. This higher risk remained significant even when comparing depressed women on SSRI with women not on SSRI. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be associated with preterm birth.

To investigate the effects of maternal and paternal depression on the risk for preterm birth. National cohort study. Medical Birth Register of Sweden, 2007-2012. A total of 366 499 singleton births with linked information for parents' filled drug prescriptions and hospital care. Prenatal depression was defined as having filled a prescription for an antidepressant drug or having been in outpatient or inpatient hospital care with a diagnosis of depression from 12 months before conception until 24 weeks after conception. An indication of depression after 12 months with no depression was defined as 'new depression', whereas all other cases were defined as 'recurrent depression'. Odds ratios (ORs) for very preterm (22-31 weeks of gestation) and moderately preterm (32-36 weeks of gestation) births were estimated using multinomial logistic regression models. After adjustment for maternal depression and sociodemographic covariates, new paternal prenatal depression was associated with very preterm birth [adjusted OR (aOR) 1.38, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.04-1.83], whereas recurrent paternal depression was not associated with an increased risk of preterm birth. Both new and recurrent maternal prenatal depression were associated with an increased risk of moderately preterm birth (aOR 1.34, 95% CI 1.22-1.46, and aOR 1.42, 95% CI 1.32-1.53, respectively). New paternal and maternal prenatal depression are potential risk factors for preterm birth. Mental health problems in both parents should be addressed for the prevention of preterm birth. Depression in both mothers and fathers is associated with an increased risk of preterm birth.

To investigate the impact of prenatal antidepressant exposure on behavioural problems in children at 7 years of age. Nationwide population-based study. Danish National Birth Cohort. A cohort of 49 178 pregnant women recruited between 1996 and 2002. Data obtained from computer-assisted telephone interviews twice during pregnancy were used to identify children born to: (i) depressed women who took antidepressants during pregnancy (n = 210); (ii) depressed women who did not take any antidepressants during pregnancy (n = 231); and (iii) healthy women who were not depressed (n = 48 737). Childhood behavioural problems at 7 years of age were examined using the validated Danish parent-report version of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ). SDQ scores. No associations were observed between prenatal antidepressant exposure and abnormal SDQ scores for overall problem behaviour (adjusted relative risk, aRR 1.00; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI 0.49-2.05), hyperactivity/inattention (aRR 0.99; 95% CI 0.56-1.75), or peer problems (aRR 1.04; 95% CI 0.57-1.91). Although prenatal antidepressant exposure appeared to be associated with abnormal SDQ scores on the subscales of emotional symptoms (aRR 1.68; 95% CI 1.18-2.38) and conduct problems (aRR 1.58; 95% CI 1.03-2.42), these associations were significantly attenuated following adjustment for antenatal mood status (aRR 1.20; 95% CI 0.85-1.70 and aRR 1.19; 95% CI 0.77 1.83, respectively). Untreated prenatal depression was associated with an increased risk of all behavioural outcomes evaluated, compared with unexposed children, with significant attenuation following adjustment for antenatal mood status. The results of this study suggest that independent of maternal illness, prenatal antidepressant exposure is not associated with an increased risk of behavioural problems in children at 7 years of age. Prenatal antidepressant exposure is not associated with an increased risk of child behavioural problems.

About 10 years ago, Gratz and Roemer (2004) introduced the Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale (DERS), a 36-item self-report instrument measuring 6 areas of emotion regulation problems. Recently, Bjureberg et al. (2015) have introduced a new, briefer version of the DERS comprising only 16 of the 36 items included in the original version. Because no studies have yet cross-validated the recently introduced 16-item DERS and the 36-item DERS has never been tested in Brazil, we sought to inspect the psychometric properties of scores from both DERS versions with a nonclinical Brazilian sample. Participants were 725 adult volunteers aged 18-70 years (mean = 30.54, standard deviation = 10.59), 82.3% of whom were women. All were administered the DERS along with a number of other self-report and performance-based instruments. Data analyses inspected internal consistency, factor structure, and convergent as well as divergent validity of scores from both DERS versions. Results show that scores from both DERS versions possess good psychometric properties. Interestingly, both versions correlated, in the expected direction, with psychopathology and showed no significant correlations with cognitive measures. Like in other studies, however, the Awareness factor of the 36-item DERS did not produce optimal validity and reliability indexes. Taken together, our findings indicate that the 16-item DERS may be preferred over the 36-item version and provide additional support to the differentiation between emotion regulation and cognitive tasks of emotional perception and abstract and verbal reasoning.

Research suggests that anger promotes global, abstract processing whereas sadness and fear promote local, concrete processing (see Schwarz & Clore, 2007 for a review). Contrary to a large and influential body of work suggesting that specific affective experiences are tethered to specific cognitive outcomes, the affect-as-cognitive-feedback account maintains that affective experiences confer positive or negative value on currently dominant processing styles, and thus can lead to either global or local processing (Huntsinger, Isbell, & Clore, 2014). The current work extends this theoretical perspective by investigating the impact of discrete negative emotions on the self-concept. By experimentally manipulating information processing styles and discrete negative emotions that vary in appraisals of certainty, we demonstrate that the impact of discrete negative emotions on the spontaneous self-concept depends on accessible processing styles. When global processing was accessible, individuals in angry (negative, high certainty) states generated more abstract statements about themselves than individuals in either sad (Experiment 1) or fearful (Experiment 2; negative, low certainty) states. When local processing was made accessible, however, the opposite pattern emerged, whereby individuals in angry states generated fewer abstract statements than individuals in sad or fearful states. Together these studies provide new insights into the mechanisms through which discrete emotions influence cognition. In contrast to theories assuming a dedicated link between emotions and processing styles, these results suggest that discrete emotions provide feedback about accessible ways of thinking, and are consistent with recent evidence suggesting that the impact of affect on cognition is highly context-dependent. (PsycINFO Database Record

Recent studies proposed that a tendency to have repetitive negative thinking (RNT) could be a predictor of alcohol use. Nevertheless, results differ depending on the studied population (nonclinical samples or patients with alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence) and on the type of repetitive thinking (rumination or worry). These heterogeneous results might be explained by the impact of anxiety and depression level on RNT and alcohol consumption. The aim of the present study was to explore different type of repetitive thinking (i.e., worry, brooding and reflection rumination, analytic-abstract repetitive thinking, and concrete-experiential thinking) in a clinical sample of alcohol-dependent patients and a non-clinical sample and the role played by depression and anxiety. Eighty-four inpatients with a diagnosis of alcohol dependence and 68 individuals from a nonclinical sample completed questionnaires evaluating repetitive thinking, anxiety, depression and alcohol consumption. Mann-Whitney U tests showed that patients with alcohol dependence reported more analytic-abstract repetitive thinking, brooding and reflection rumination and worry, as well as anxious and depressive symptoms, compared with social drinkers, who reported more concrete-experiential repetitive thinking. Moreover, a multiple mediation model indicated that the link between RNT and alcohol consumption was significantly mediated by both anxiety and depression. Conclusion/Importance: The results support the implication of RNT in alcohol dependence and the distinction between different types of repetitive thinking with adaptive or maladaptive consequences. This link seems to be explained by the levels of depression and anxiety that mediate the impact of RNT on alcohol consumption.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Loneliness in older adults has been identified as an important public health issue in many countries. Widowhood is a time when many older people experience loneliness. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Little is known about strategies that are effective in mitigating experiences of loneliness and this paper explores this with older people who have been through the process. The narratives of the older people in this study described a trajectory in which loneliness was experienced as both a loss of spouse and a loss of routines that enabled them to maintain connections with others. This trajectory moved onto the establishment of new routines that enabled connections to be developed. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Loneliness is strongly associated with depression and anxiety in the elderly and mental health nurses should be encouraged to screen for loneliness when undertaking assessments. Interventions that facilitate the development of meaningful routines could be integrated into mental health nursing care of older people. Background Loneliness in older people is a public health concern in many Western countries. While not necessarily a symptom of mental disorder, it is often associated with depression and anxiety. Widowhood is a transition period during which many older people experience acute loneliness but over time develops strategies to manage it. Little is known about effective strategies that older people have used to manage the experience. The strategies older people used to manage this was the focus of this paper. Aim The aim was to examine older widows' experiences of loneliness. Design The design of this study was a qualitative narrative analysis with thematic analysis and the participants were 40 older widow/widowers aged between 70 and 97 years. Findings The study found that the participants negotiated the experience of loneliness following widowhood from an acute phase of experiencing an absence and the associated loss of routine connection to the establishment of new routines that provided new connections and a new sense of identity as an individual rather than a couple. Conclusions It is important for mental health nurses to screen for loneliness and be able to facilitate interventions that may alleviate the experience of loneliness.

Although implicit tests of positive and negative affect exist, implicit measures of distinct emotional states are scarce. Three experiments examined whether a novel implicit emotion-assessment task, the rating of emotion expressed in abstract images, would reveal distinct emotional states. In Experiment 1, participants exposed to a sadness-inducing story inferred more sadness, and less happiness, in abstract images. In Experiment 2, an anger-provoking interaction increased anger ratings. In Experiment 3, compared to neutral images, spider images increased fear ratings in spider-fearful participants but not in controls. In each experiment, the implicit task indicated elevated levels of the target emotion and did not indicate elevated levels of non-target negative emotions; the task thus differentiated among emotional states of the same valence. Correlations also supported the convergent and discriminant validity of the implicit task. Supporting the possibility that heuristic processes underlie the ratings, group differences were stronger among those who responded relatively quickly.

Postpartum Haemorrhage (PPH) is a leading cause of maternal mortality with approximately 225 women dying as a result of it each day especially in low income countries. However, much less is known about morbidity after a PPH. This systematic review aimed to determine the overall prevalence of emotional and physical health problems experienced by women following a postpartum haemorrhage. Eight databases were searched for published non-randomised, observational, including cohort, primary research studies that reported on the prevalence of emotional and/or physical health problems following a PPH. Intervention studies were included and data, if available, were abstracted on the control group. All authors independently screened the papers for inclusion. Of the 2210 papers retrieved, six met the inclusion criteria. Data were extracted independently by two authors. The methodological quality of the included studies was assessed using a modified Newcastle Ottawa Scale (NOS). The primary outcome measure reported was emotional and physical health problems up to 12 months postpartum following a postpartum haemorrhage. Two thousand two hundred ten citations were identified and screened with 2089 excluded by title and abstract. Following full-text review of 121 papers, 115 were excluded. The remaining 6 studies were included. All included studies were judged as having strong or moderate methodological quality. Five studies had the sequelae of PPH as their primary focus, and one study focused on morbidity postnatally, from which we could extract data on PPH. Persistent morbidities following PPH (at ≥ 3 and < 6 months postpartum) included postnatal depression (13 %), post-traumatic stress disorder (3 %), and health status 'much worse than one year ago' (6 %). Due to the different types of health outcomes reported in the individual studies, it was possible to pool results from only four studies, and only then by accepting the slightly differing definitions of PPH. Those that could be pooled reported rates of acute renal failure (0.33 %), coagulopathy (1.74 %) and re-admission to hospital following a PPH between 1 and 3 months postpartum (3.6 %), an appreciable indication of underlying physical problems. This systematic review demonstrates that the existence and type of physical and emotional health problems post PPH, regardless of the volume of blood lost, are largely unknown. Further large cohort or case control studies are necessary to obtain better knowledge of the sequelae of this debilitating morbidity.

A student's accuracy on drug calculation tests may be influenced by maths anxiety, which can impede one's ability to understand and complete mathematic problems. It is important for healthcare students to overcome this barrier when calculating drug dosages in order to avoid administering the incorrect dose to a patient when in the clinical setting. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of maths anxiety on healthcare students' ability to accurately calculate drug dosages by performing a scoping review of the existing literature. This review utilised a six-stage methodology using the following databases; CINAHL, Embase, Medline, Scopus, PsycINFO, Google Scholar, Trip database (http://www.tripdatabase.com/) and Grey Literature report (http://www.greylit.org/). After an initial title/abstract review of relevant papers, and then full text review of the remaining papers, six articles were selected for inclusion in this study. Of the six articles included, there were three experimental studies, two quantitative studies and one mixed method study. All studies addressed nursing students and the presence of maths anxiety. No relevant studies from other disciplines were identified in the existing literature. Three studies took place in the U.S, the remainder in Canada, Australia and United Kingdom. Upon analysis of these studies, four factors including maths anxiety were identified as having an influence on a student's drug dosage calculation abilities. Ultimately, the results from this review suggest more research is required in nursing and other relevant healthcare disciplines regarding the effects of maths anxiety on drug dosage calculations. This additional knowledge will be important to further inform development of strategies to decrease the potentially serious effects of errors in drug dosage calculation to patient safety.

Worry and anticipatory processing are forms of repetitive negative thinking (RNT) that are associated with maladaptive characteristics and negative consequences. One key maladaptive characteristic of worry is its abstract nature (Goldwin & Behar, 2012; Stöber & Borkovec, 2002). Several investigations have relied on inductions of worry that are social-evaluative in nature, which precludes distinctions between worry and RNT about social-evaluative situations. The present study examined similarities and distinctions between worry and anticipatory processing on potentially important maladaptive characteristics. Participants (N = 279) engaged in idiographic periods of uninstructed mentation, worry, and anticipatory processing and provided thought samples during each minute of each induction. Thought samples were assessed for concreteness, degree of verbal-linguistic activity, and degree of imagery-based activity. Both worry and anticipatory processing were characterized by reduced concreteness, increased abstraction of thought over time, and a predominance of verbal-linguistic activity. However, worry was more abstract, more verbal-linguistic, and less imagery-based relative to anticipatory processing. Finally, worry demonstrated reductions in verbal-linguistic activity over time, whereas anticipatory processing demonstrated reductions in imagery-based activity over time. Worry was limited to non-social topics to distinguish worry from anticipatory processing, and may not represent worry that is social in nature. Generalizability may also be limited by use of an undergraduate sample. Results from the present study provide support for Stöber's theory regarding the reduced concreteness of worry, and suggest that although worry and anticipatory processing share some features, they also contain characteristics unique to each process.

The concepts of "good" and "bad" are associated with right and left space. Individuals tend to associate good things with the side of their dominant hand, where they experience greater motor fluency, and bad things with their nondominant side. This mapping has been shown to be flexible: Changing the relative fluency of the hands, or even observing a change in someone else's motor fluency, results in a reversal of the conceptual mapping, such that good things become associated with the side of the nondominant hand. Yet, based on prior studies, it is unclear whether space-valence associations were determined by the experience of fluent versus disfluent actions, or by the mere expectation of fluency. Here, we tested the role of expected fluency by removing motor execution and perceptual feedback altogether. Participants were asked to imagine themselves performing a psychomotor task with one of their hands impaired, after which their implicit space-valence mapping was measured. After imagining that their right hand was impaired, right-handed participants showed the "good is left" association typical of left-handers. Motor imagery can change people's implicit associations between space and emotional valence. Although asymmetric motor experience may be necessary to establish body-specific associations between space and valence initially, neither motoric nor perceptual experience is needed to change these associations subsequently. The mere expectation of fluent versus disfluenct actions can drive fluency-based effects on people's implicit spatialization of "good" and "bad." These results suggest a reconsideration of the mechanisms and boundary conditions of fluency effects.

The psychological investigation of heroism is relatively new. At this stage, inductive methods can shed light on its main aspects. Therefore, we examined the social representations of Hero and Everyday Hero by collecting word associations from two separate representative samples in Hungary. We constructed two networks from these word associations. The results show that the social representation of Hero is more centralized and it cannot be divided into smaller units. The network of Everyday Hero is divided into five units and the significance moves from abstract hero characteristics to concrete social roles and occupations exhibiting pro-social values. We also created networks from the common associations of Hero and Everyday Hero. The structures of these networks show a moderate similarity and the connections are more balanced in case of Everyday Hero. While heroism in general can be the source of inspiration, the promotion of everyday heroism can be more successful in encouraging ordinary people to recognize their own potential for heroic behavior.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: To stimulate reminiscence of older adults with dementia performed individually or through group sessions is a well-known practice in nursing homes resulting in effects on behaviour and well-being as an alternative for medication. Robust scientific proof of the effectiveness of individual reminiscence therapy performed in nursing homes is sparse. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We have provided individual standardized reminiscence therapy to residents with dementia. The therapy was developed and tested in a previous study and performed in this study by trained nursing home volunteers. In comparison with a control group who received usual care, residents who received the reminiscence therapy showed significant less depressive symptoms. Moreover, residents were, in general, attentive, open and collaborative during the sessions and volunteers experienced the sessions as useful and pleasant. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Individual reminiscence therapy can be learned and used by nursing home volunteers to improve care in nursing homes. Aim To investigate the effect of a standardized individualized intervention based on the SolCos transformational reminiscence model on depressive symptoms (primary outcome), cognition and behaviour (secondary outcomes) for older people with mild to moderate dementia, performed by trained nursing home volunteers as facilitators. Background Because of limited pharmacological treatment options for older adults with dementia relevant physical, sensory, psychological or social interventions offer alternative opportunities. Method Randomized controlled trial (ISRCTN74355073) was set up in two nursing homes with 29 and 31 residents in the intervention and the control groups respectively. Eighteen nursing home volunteers were trained to perform the reminiscence therapy. Various assessment scales were measured pre- and post-sessions. Results Linear regression analysis showed an impact on depressive symptoms. However, no impact was identified on cognition and behaviour. Facilitators experienced the sessions as useful and pleasant, and study participants were, in general, attentive, open and collaborative. Discussion Study results showed that organizing standardized individual reminiscence therapy with nursing home volunteers was feasible and study participants' attention and participation were overall good. Further study initiatives to explore the potential of individual reminiscence therapy within a person-centred framework are recommended in order to improve care in nursing homes.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Despite the increased interest in nursing students' happiness in South Korea, few studies have attempted to identify factors influencing their happiness. Therefore, nursing educators should consistently investigate the factors influencing happiness and develop strategies to improve happiness among Korean nursing students. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study confirmed that there were positive correlations between grateful disposition, social support and happiness. In addition, grateful disposition and support from intimate people were identified as predictors of happiness in Korean nursing students. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Development of intervention programmes to help nursing students increase grateful disposition and support from intimate people may be helpful for improving happiness. These programmes can include activity, such as writing a gratitude journal, and extracurricular programmes, such as mentoring programmes between seniors and juniors and/or professor and student. Introduction Happiness is very important in the training and development of nursing students as future nurses. However, nursing students experience a high level of stress and low level of happiness in South Korea. Aim This study aimed to investigate factors that affect happiness among nursing students in South Korea. Method Data were collected from a total of 241 nursing enrolled in two 4-year baccalaureate nursing programmes in South Korea, using a self-administrated questionnaire. To identify predictors of happiness, stepwise regression analysis was conducted. Results The results indicated that grateful disposition and support from intimate people significantly predict happiness among Korean nursing students. These two factors accounted for 38.0% of the variance in happiness. Discussion This study indicated grateful disposition and support from intimate people as factors promoting happiness in nursing students. The findings highlight grateful disposition and support from intimate people as important factors when developing effective interventions that foster nursing students' happiness.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Loneliness among people diagnosed with schizophrenia is a serious problem. Recent studies have focused on the loneliness; however, no study has examined the relationships between loneliness and both individual and environmental factors comprehensively. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The main results indicated that the community-dwelling people diagnosed with schizophrenia in Japan as well as in other countries experienced higher levels of loneliness. Both individual and environmental factors were related to loneliness. Increasing the self-efficacy for community life and self-esteem of individual factors, and not being socially isolated and increasing community integration of environmental factors would improve their loneliness. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Health practitioners, in particular, public health nurses in mental health care, should work to develop a partnership with people diagnosed with schizophrenia, their family members, friends and other community-dwelling people in order to decrease and prevent loneliness. For individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia, interventions by cooperating with community resources and using the technique of nurses to assist them with continuous community activity could be useful. For environmental interventions, population approach such as developing daily programmes which family members can participate in, and cooperating with educational institutions and community events could have a positive effects. Introduction Loneliness among people diagnosed with schizophrenia living in communities can decrease quality of life and may contribute to suicide. Aim The aim of this study was to examine the levels of loneliness among Japanese people diagnosed with schizophrenia and to identify individual and environmental factors related to their loneliness. Method A cross-sectional survey was conducted with 264 people diagnosed with schizophrenia who use local activity support centres in urban areas. The self-administered questionnaires included questions on loneliness, demographic characteristics, individual factors including self-efficacy for community life and self-esteem, and environmental factors including social isolation, community integration and service use. Results The study results indicated that people diagnosed with schizophrenia in Japan experience higher levels of loneliness, corroborating results from other countries. Multiple regression analysis showed that a lower level of self-efficacy for community life, self-esteem, community integration and social isolation predicted a higher level of loneliness, accounting for 55.3% of variance. Implications for Practice Public health nurses in mental health care in Japan can work with individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia and communities using the technique to assist them with continuous activity and cooperating with community resources and educational institutions in order to decrease and prevent loneliness.

Previous findings and the depressive-executive dysfunction hypothesis suggest that the established association between executive functioning and depression is accounted for by repetitive thinking. Investigating the association between executive functioning, repetitive thinking, and depressive mood, the present study empirically tested this mediational model in a sample of older adults, while focusing on both concrete and abstract repetitive thinking. This latter distinction is important given the potential protective role of concrete repetitive thinking, in contrast to the depletive effect of abstract repetitive thinking. A sample of 43 elderly volunteers, between 75 and 95 years of age, completed tests of executive functioning (the Stroop test, the Trail Making test, and the Fluency test), and questionnaires of repetitive thinking and depression. Positive correlations were observed between abstract repetitive thinking and depressive mood, and between concrete repetitive thinking and executive functioning; a negative correlation was observed between depressive mood and executive functioning. Further, mediational analysis evidenced that the relation between executive functioning and depressive mood was mediated by abstract repetitive thinking. The present data provide, for the first time, empirical support to the depressive-executive dysfunction hypothesis: the lack of executive resources would favor a mode of abstract repetitive thinking, which in turn would deplete mood. It suggests that clinical intervention targeting depression in the elderly should take into consideration repetitive thinking modes and the executive resources needed to disengage from rumination.

This work reviews key behavioural, neurophysiological and neuroimaging data on the neural substrates for processing the meaning of linguistic material, and tries to articulate the picture emerging from those findings with the notion of meaning coming from specific approaches in philosophy of language (the "internalist" view) and linguistics (words point at experiential clusters). The reviewed findings provide evidence in favour of a causal role of brain neural structures responsible for sensory, motor and even emotional experiences in attributing meaning to words expressing those experiences and, consequently, lend substantial support to an embodied and "internalist" conception of linguistic meaning. Key evidence concern verbs, nouns and adjectives with a concrete content, but the challenge that abstract domains pose to the embodied approach to language is also discussed. This work finally suggests that the most fundamental role of embodiment might be that of establishing commonalities among individual experiences of different members of a linguistic community, and that those experiences ground shared linguistic meanings.

Apathy is a debilitating and under-recognized condition that has a significant impact in many neurodegenerative disorders. In Parkinson's disease, it is now known to contribute to worse outcomes and a reduced quality of life for patients and carers, adding to health costs and extending disease burden. However, despite its clinical importance, there remains limited understanding of mechanisms underlying apathy. Here we investigated if insensitivity to reward might be a contributory factor and examined how this relates to severity of clinical symptoms. To do this we created novel ocular measures that indexed motivation level using pupillary and saccadic response to monetary incentives, allowing reward sensitivity to be evaluated objectively. This approach was tested in 40 patients with Parkinson's disease, 31 elderly age-matched control participants and 20 young healthy volunteers. Thirty patients were examined ON and OFF their dopaminergic medication in two counterbalanced sessions, so that the effect of dopamine on reward sensitivity could be assessed. Pupillary dilation to increasing levels of monetary reward on offer provided quantifiable metrics of motivation in healthy subjects as well as patients. Moreover, pupillary reward sensitivity declined with age. In Parkinson's disease, reduced pupillary modulation by incentives was predictive of apathy severity, and independent of motor impairment and autonomic dysfunction as assessed using overnight heart rate variability measures. Reward sensitivity was further modulated by dopaminergic state, with blunted sensitivity when patients were OFF dopaminergic drugs, both in pupillary response and saccadic peak velocity response to reward. These findings suggest that reward insensitivity may be a contributory mechanism to apathy and provide potential new clinical measures for improved diagnosis and monitoring of apathy.media-1vid110.1093/brain/aww188_video_abstractaww188_video_abstract.

The aim of this study was to review previous studies and to identify reliable factors determining anxiety in adult patients undergoing tooth extraction procedures. An electronic literature search was conducted of the MEDLINE, ScienceDirect, SpringerLink, and Wiley Online Library databases covering the period January 2005 to May 2015. Sequential screening was performed at the title/abstract and full-text level. The review included all human prospective and retrospective follow-up studies and clinical trials, cohort studies, case-control studies, and case series that demonstrated at least one factor determining tooth extraction anxiety and/or fear and used specific scales for measurement. The search identified 16 articles meeting the inclusion criteria. Factors related to tooth extraction in patients were assessed: propensity to anxiety (P<0.05), pain experience or expectations (P<0.05), level of disturbance during the procedure (P<0.001), difficulty of the procedure (P=0.034), marital status (P=0.003), social class (P=0.012), and type of local anaesthesia (P=0.008). Using a video as the method of providing information (P<0.05) and having had a previous negative dental experience (P<0.05) led to an increase in patient anxiety level. Due to disagreements between studies, further investigations into the other factors are required to clarify the results. However, the absence of a single and appropriate scale that includes both the patient's evaluation and that of the doctor, hinders the rating of patient anxiety.

We investigated whether the effects of valence and arousal on emotional word processing are modulated by concreteness using event-related potentials (ERPs). The stimuli included concrete words (Experiment 1) and abstract words (Experiment 2) that were organized in an orthogonal design, with valence (positive and negative) and arousal (low and high) as factors in a lexical decision task. In Experiment 1, the impact of emotion on the effects of concrete words mainly resulted from the contribution of valence. Positive concrete words were processed more quickly than negative words and elicited a reduction of N400 (300-410ms) and enhancement of late positive complex (LPC; 450-750ms), whereas no differences in response times or ERPs were found between high and low levels of arousal. In Experiment 2, the interaction between valence and arousal influenced the impact of emotion on the effects of abstract words. Low-arousal positive words were associated with shorter response times and a reduction of LPC amplitudes compared with high-arousal positive words. Low-arousal negative words were processed more slowly and elicited a reduction of N170 (140-200ms) compared with high-arousal negative words. The present study indicates that word concreteness modulates the contributions of valence and arousal to the effects of emotion, and this modulation occurs during the early perceptual processing stage (N170) and late elaborate processing stage (LPC) for emotional words and at the end of all cognitive processes (i.e., reflected by response times). These findings support an embodied theory of semantic representation and help clarify prior inconsistent findings regarding the ways in which valance and arousal influence different stages of word processing, at least in a lexical decision task.

Psychological illness occurring in association with hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) has been widely reported. To determine if there is a higher incidence of psychological morbidity in women with HG compared with women without significant nausea and vomiting in pregnancy. PubMed, MEDLINE, Embase and PsychINFO were searched up to September 2015. Articles referring to psychological morbidity in relation to HG. For meta-analysis case-control studies using numerical scales to compare psychological symptoms. Articles were independently assessed for inclusion by two reviewers and methodology was appraised using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale. Comparison was made using the standard mean difference (SMD) in symptom scale scores. In all, 59 articles were included in the systematic review, 12 of these were used in the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis of depression scale scores demonstrated a very large effect with statistically significantly higher depression scale scores in women with HG (SMD 1.22; 95% CI 0.80-1.64; P ≤ 0.01) compared with controls. Meta-analysis of anxiety scores demonstrated a large effect with statistically significantly higher anxiety disorder scale scores in women with HG (SMD 0.86; 95% CI 0.53-1.19; P ≤ 0.01). In both analyses significant heterogeneity was identified (depression and HG I Our systematic review and meta-analysis have shown a significantly increased frequency of depression and anxiety in women with HG. The findings should prompt service development for women with HG that includes provision of psychological care and support. Meta-analysis demonstrates an increase in #PsychologicalMorbidity in women with #HyperemesisGravidarum.

Perceptions of intergroup threat have been related to both experiences of physiological stress responses and derogation of the outgroup. In this study, a neuroscience perspective was used to investigate the relationship between stress and opportunity to derogate the outgroup, in a threatening intergroup context. Research from a social identity perspective suggests that engaging in outgroup derogation alleviates stress when perceiving an intergroup threat. However, in line with the model of intergroup anxiety, opportunity to derogate could exacerbate the negative connotations of a threatening situation, resulting in more stress. Canadian participants (N = 110) were exposed to text describing either discriminatory or favorable comments expressed by Chinese individuals towards Canadians. Half of the participants were given the opportunity to derogate via a bias task. Salivary cortisol was used as a measure of stress and was collected at baseline, post-threat, and post-derogation. As expected, threatening identity led to more stress as evidenced by increased cortisol concentrations. Furthermore, threatened participants who had an opportunity to derogate showed greater cortisol concentrations than those who did not. These results demonstrate a link between stress and the opportunity to derogate, and highlights the value of using biological markers within the intergroup context. Rewrite abstract to remove all the references (they are meaningless because the abstracting services will use the abstract as is but will not provide the references so their presence is useless.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Frailty and multimorbidity are common in later life. A higher level of frailty is associated with a higher risk of adverse physical and psychological health situations. Older adults with pain have been reported to be lonelier and more depressed, as well as less happy and less satisfied with their life as compared to those without pain. In view of the high prevalence of pain among older adults and the reversibility of frailty, it is important to explore the relationship between pain, frailty and psychological parameters in order to devise patient-centred interventions. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Frailty index is positively correlated with the presence of pain, and associated with gender, functional mobility and loneliness. Among these significant variables, loneliness was the factor that contributed the most to the frailty index. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: It is essential to put the focus of healthcare on both the physical and psychological aspects of well-being. All nurses are advised to improve the management of pain in older people in order to lower the levels of pain, frailty and psychological distress among this population. Nursing care should address the loneliness level especially the problem of social loneliness among older adults particularly those living in nursing homes. Introduction In view of the high prevalence of pain among older adults and the reversibility of frailty, it is important to explore the relationship between pain, frailty and psychological parameters in order to devise patient-centred interventions. Aim To examine the levels of frailty, pain and psychological parameters among older adults living in Hong Kong nursing homes, and the cross-sectional relationships among these items. Methods A cross-sectional study was conducted among 178 residents from six nursing homes. Frailty, pain, mobility, happiness, loneliness and life satisfaction of participants were assessed using validated questionnaires. Results A multiple linear regression (R(2)  = 0.338, P < 0.05) showed that the frailty index was associated with loneliness, functional mobility and gender. Among these significant variables, loneliness was the factor that contributed the most to the frailty index. Discussion It is essential to put the focus of healthcare on both the physical and psychological aspects of well-being. Findings suggest that apart from improving mobility and reducing pain, loneliness could be a target of psychosocial interventions to reduce frailty and improve quality of life. Implications for practice It is advised that nursing care should address loneliness, especially the problem of social loneliness among older adults particularly those living in nursing homes.

Biological plausibility is an essential constraint for any viable model of semantic memory. Yet, we have only the most rudimentary understanding of how the human brain conducts abstract symbolic transformations that underlie word and object meaning. Neuroscience has evolved a sophisticated arsenal of techniques for elucidating the architecture of conceptual representation. Nevertheless, theoretical convergence remains elusive. Here we describe several contrastive approaches to the organization of semantic knowledge, and in turn we offer our own perspective on two recurring questions in semantic memory research: (1) to what extent are conceptual representations mediated by sensorimotor knowledge (i.e., to what degree is semantic memory embodied)? (2) How might an embodied semantic system represent abstract concepts such as modularity, symbol, or proposition? To address these questions, we review the merits of sensorimotor (i.e., embodied) and amodal (i.e., disembodied) semantic theories and address the neurobiological constraints underlying each. We conclude that the shortcomings of both perspectives in their extreme forms necessitate a hybrid middle ground. We accordingly propose the Dynamic Multilevel Reactivation Framework-an integrative model predicated upon flexible interplay between sensorimotor and amodal symbolic representations mediated by multiple cortical hubs. We discuss applications of the dynamic multilevel reactivation framework to abstract and concrete concept representation and describe how a multidimensional conceptual topography based on emotion, sensation, and magnitude can successfully frame a semantic space containing meanings for both abstract and concrete words. The consideration of 'abstract conceptual features' does not diminish the role of logical and/or executive processing in activating, manipulating and using information stored in conceptual representations. Rather, it proposes that the materials upon which these processes operate necessarily combine pure sensorimotor information and higher-order cognitive dimensions involved in symbolic representation.

Sleep loss alters processing of emotional stimuli in preschool-aged children. However, the mechanism by which sleep modifies emotional processing in early childhood is unknown. We tested the hypothesis that a nap, compared to an equivalent time spent awake, reduces biases in attention allocation to affective information. Children (n = 43; M = 55.40 months, SD = 8.05 months) completed a Dot Probe task, which provides a measure of attention biases to emotional stimuli, following a mid-day nap and an equivalent interval spent awake. No emotional attention biases emerged when children napped. However, when nap-deprived, children exhibited biases towards negative and positive stimuli. This emotional bias after wake was greater in children who napped habitually. Gender differences also emerged such that females were more attentive to positive emotional stimuli whereas males showed heightened attention to negative emotional stimuli, regardless of having napped or not. Moreover, greater slow wave activity (SWA) during the nap was associated with faster responding, which suggests that SWA may promote efficiency of attention allocation. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JIoZ8mzxQgg.

The aesthetic experience through art is a window into the study of emotions. Patients with behavioural variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) have early alteration of emotional processing. A new appreciation of art has been reported in some of these patients. We designed a computerized task using 32 abstract paintings that allowed us to investigate the integrity of patients' emotions when viewing the artwork. We evaluated both conscious and explicit appraisal of emotions [aesthetic judgment (beautiful/ugly), emotional relevance (affected or not by the painting), emotional valence (pleasant/unpleasant), emotional reaction (adjective choice) and arousal] and unconscious processing. Fifteen bvFTD patients and 15 healthy controls were included. BvFTD patients reported that they were "little touched" by the paintings. Aesthetic judgment was very different between the two groups: the paintings were considered ugly (negative aesthetic bias) and unpleasant (negative emotional bias) more often by the patients than by controls. Valence and aesthetic judgments correlated in both groups. In addition, there was a positive bias in the implicit task and for explicit emotional responses. Patients frequently chose the word "sad" and rarely expressed themselves with such adjectives as "happy". Our results suggest that bvFTD patients can give an aesthetic judgment, but present abstraction difficulties, as spectators, resulting from impairments in the cognitive processes involved. They also have difficulties in terms of emotional processes with the loss of the ability to feel the emotion per se (i.e., to feel an emotion faced with art) linked to behaviour assessment. This cognitive approach allows us to better understand which spectators are bvFTD patients and to show interactions between emotions and behavioural disorders.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 9(1) of  There were 335 Palestinian adolescents (n = 335) enrolled in 11th and 12th grades in secondary schools in Gaza refugee camps completed the Beck Depression Inventory, the Beck Anxiety Inventory, and self-report measures assessing coping skills, self-regulation, optimism, parenting style, family sense of coherence, national identity, ethnic identity, and other demographic variables. Participants with stronger national identity, stronger family sense of coherence, greater self-regulation, and more optimism reported less depressive and anxious symptoms. In a logistic regression analysis, significant predictors of resilience (minimal to no anxiety and depression, n = 135) were age, optimism, family sense of coherence, ethnic identity, self-regulation, and coping skills. These findings indicate that older age, optimism, perception of family seeing the world as comprehensible, manageable, and meaningful, stronger Arab ethnic identity, greater self-regulation and stronger coping skills promote adolescent adaptation and health. Salutogenesis frames information about how resilient youth living in high threat environments may respond to preventative community-based behavioral health interventions as well as treatment of depression, anxiety, and other psychological distress among adolescents living with ongoing violence. (PsycINFO Database Record

Prior research on fear of crime has focused less on psychological causes than on sociological and demographic factors. This study, however, introduces time perspective (TP) as an important psychological variable in the understanding of fear of crime. Specifically, the article assesses the relationship between TP as a stable personality factor and the mediation of risk and general fear on fear of crime levels. Data were collected using the survey method from a sample of 375 respondents utilizing the following scales: Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory (ZTPI) consisting of five TP subscales, Ferraro's perceived risk of victimization and fear of crime scales, and a general (non-crime) fear scale measuring pragmatic and abstract fear. Path analysis shows no significant direct relationships between the five TP subscales and fear of crime. However, indirect effects are observed for Past Negative TP and Present Fatalistic TP, with general fear (pragmatic and abstract) and risk of victimization mediating the relationship, and pragmatic fear having the greatest significant effect size. Results are discussed in the context of risk and general fear sensitivity and construal level theory. We conclude with recommendations for future research.

The collection of tears for chemical composition analysis is complicated by both the difficulty in sampling the tear film and the relatively low microliter volumes available for analysis. The experiments in this study are focused on the demonstration of a method for determining amino acids from tear samples. Phenol red thread was used to absorptively collect tear fluid for qualitative and quantitative analyses of amino acids in basal, reflex, and emotional tears. The thread is also used as a support for sample preparation followed by elution with a buffer. The phenol red indicator on the thread turns from yellow to red with 15-s tear absorption and allows accurate volume measurement from 100 nL to over 1 μL. Derivatization of amino acids was performed directly on the thread with primary amine reactive fluorescamine for fluorescence detection. Analyte elution was performed via centrifugation with the thread in a pipet tip suspended in a centrifuge tube. Collected tear eluate was analyzed via capillary electrophoresis with LED-induced fluorescence. Glycine, glutamate, and aspartate were baseline resolved and used for method characterization. Recoveries were at 50 % for a single derivation and elution step but average recoveries near 90 % were found with two-step processing. Glutamate and aspartate are shown to be stable stored on thread for 3 days. Basal, reflex, and emotional tears were analyzed from three subjects showing distinct amino acid profiles for each tear type. The demonstration of this method may facilitate the development of routine tear compositional analysis to assess ocular health. Graphical Abstract Schematic drawing of thread-based tear collection and quantitative analysis.

The present study examined whether emotionally congruent facial muscular activation - a somatic index of emotional language embodiment can be elicited by reading subject-verb sentences composed of action verbs, that refer directly to facial expressions (e.g., Mario smiles), but also by reading more abstract state verbs, which provide more direct access to the emotions felt by the agent (e.g., Mario enjoys). To address this issue, we measured facial electromyography (EMG) while participants evaluated state and action verb sentences. We found emotional sentences including both verb categories to have valence-congruent effects on emotional ratings and corresponding facial muscle activations. As expected, state verb-sentences were judged with higher valence ratings than action verb-sentences. Moreover, despite emotional congruent facial activations were similar for the two linguistic categories, in a late temporal window we found a tendency for greater EMG modulation when reading action relative to state verb sentences. These results support embodied theories of language comprehension and suggest that understanding emotional action and state verb sentences relies on partially dissociable motor and emotional processes.

Mental imagery of events in the past or future, and of unpleasant or pleasant events, has been found to lead to spontaneous backward/forward bodily motions. Both time and emotion are represented along a spatial continuum, and activation of these representations seems to be simulated in spontaneous changes in body posture. We performed a conceptual replication and extension of an earlier study by Miles, Nind, and Macrae (2010) who reported clear postural effects when thinking of the past and the future. We additionally tested whether changes in posture appear when thinking of an emotional event. Volunteers engaged in mental imagery, involving combinations of time intervals and emotions. We simultaneously recorded center-of-pressure (COP) changes. Results revealed neither an effect of imagery of time nor of emotion on body posture. We conclude that embodied effects of imagery of abstract items on body posture may be less robust than suggested by previous literature.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a T cell autoimmune, inflammatory, and demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Currently available therapies have partially effective actions and numerous side reactions. Inosine, an endogenous purine nucleoside, has immunomodulatory, neuroprotective, and analgesic properties. Herein, we evaluated the effect of inosine on the development and progression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an experimental model of MS. Inosine (1 or 10 mg/kg, i.p.) was administrated twice a day for 40 days. Immunological and inflammatory responses were evaluated by behavioral, histological, immunohistochemical, ELISA, RT-PCR, and Western blotting analysis. The administration of inosine exerted neuroprotective effects against EAE by diminishing clinical signs, including thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia, as well as weight loss typical of the disease. These beneficial effects of inosine seem to be associated with the blockade of inflammatory cell entry into the CNS, especially lymphocytes, thus delaying the demyelinating process and astrocytes activation. In particular, up-regulation of IL-17 levels in the secondary lymphoid tissues, a result of EAE, was prevented by inosine treatment in EAE mice. Additionally, inosine consistently prevented A2AR up-regulation in the spinal cord, likely, through an ERK1-independent pathway. Altogether, these results allow us to propose that this endogenous purine might be a putative novel and helpful tool for the prevention of autoimmune and neurodegenerative diseases, such as MS. Thus, inosine could have considerable implications for future therapies of MS, and this study may represent the starting point for further investigation into the role of inosine and adenosinergic receptors in neuroinflammation processes. Graphical Abstract Preventive treatment with inosine inhibits the development and progression of EAE in C57Bl/6 mice. Furthermore, neuroinflammation and demyelinating processes were blocked by inosine treatment. Additionally, inosine consistently inhibited IL-17 levels in peripheral lymphoid tissue, as well as IL-4 levels and A2AR up-regulation in the spinal cord, likely, through an ERK1-independent pathway. EAE: experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis; MS: multiple sclerosis; A2AR: adenosine A2A receptor; IL-17: interleukin-17; IL-4: interleukin-4.

Consonance is a salient perceptual feature in harmonic music associated with pleasantness. Besides being deeply rooted in how we experience music, research suggests consonant intervals are more easily processed than dissonant intervals. In the present work we explore from a comparative perspective if such processing advantage extends to more complex tasks such as the detection of abstract rules. We ran experiments on rule learning over consonant and dissonant intervals with nonhuman animals and human participants. Results show differences across species regarding the extent to which they benefit from differences in consonance. Animals learn abstract rules with the same ease independently of whether they are implemented over consonant intervals (Experiment 1), dissonant intervals (Experiment 2), or over a combination of them (Experiment 3). Humans, on the contrary, learn an abstract rule better when it is implemented over consonant (Experiment 4) than over dissonant intervals (Experiment 5). Moreover, their performance improves when there is a mapping between abstract categories defining a rule and consonant and dissonant intervals (Experiments 6 and 7). Results suggest that for humans, consonance might be used as a perceptual anchor for other cognitive processes as to facilitate the detection of abstract patterns. Lacking extensive experience with harmonic stimuli, nonhuman animals tested here do not seem to benefit from a processing advantage for consonant intervals. (PsycINFO Database Record

Feedback-driven learning, observed across phylogeny and of clear adaptive value, is frequently operationalized in simple operant conditioning paradigms, but it can be much more complex, driven by abstract representations of success and failure. This study investigates the neural processes involved in processing success and failure during feedback learning, which are not well understood. Data analyzed were acquired during a multisession neurofeedback experiment in which ten participants were presented with, and instructed to modulate, the activity of their orbitofrontal cortex with the aim of decreasing their anxiety. We assessed the regional blood-oxygenation-level-dependent response to the individualized neurofeedback signals of success and failure across twelve functional runs acquired in two different magnetic resonance sessions in each of ten individuals. Neurofeedback signals of failure correlated early during learning with deactivation in the precuneus/posterior cingulate and neurofeedback signals of success correlated later during learning with deactivation in the medial prefrontal/anterior cingulate cortex. The intensity of the latter deactivations predicted the efficacy of the neurofeedback intervention in the reduction of anxiety. These findings indicate a role for regulation of the default mode network during feedback learning, and suggest a higher sensitivity to signals of failure during the early feedback learning and to signals of success subsequently.

Saarimaki et al. (2015) published a paper claiming to find the neural "fingerprints" for anger, fear, disgust, happiness, sadness, and surprise using multivariate pattern analysis. There are 2 ways in which Saarimaki et al.'s interpretation mischaracterizes their actual findings. The first is statistical: a pattern that successfully distinguishes the members of one category from the members of another (with an accuracy greater than that which might be expected by chance) is not a "fingerprint" (i.e., an essence); it is an abstract, statistical summary of a variable population of instances. The second way in which Saarimaki et al.'s interpretation mischaracterizes their results is conceptual: their findings do not actually meet the specific criteria for basic emotion theory. Instead, their findings are more consistent with a theory of constructed emotion. In our view, Saarimaki et al. is elegant in method and important in that it demonstrates empirical support for a theory of emotion that relies on population thinking; it is also an example of how essentialism-the belief that all instances of a category possesses necessary features that define what is, and what is not, a category member-contributes to a fundamental misunderstanding of the neural basis of emotion.

Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that the medial prefrontal cortex is involved in attributions on enduring and abstract trait characteristics of persons, but not in causal attributions of temporary here-and-now events. Moreover, the neural representation of trait information is thought to be located in the ventral part of the medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). In order to verify this latter finding, this study compared the performance of 8 patients with hypoperfusion of the vmPFC, 10 with hypoperfusion excluding the vmPFC and 15 healthy controls on trait and causal attribution questionnaires consisting of several events presented in brief written scenarios. We also investigated whether vmPFC hypoperfusion influenced the experienced intensity of the negative or positive valence of the events. Our results showed that patients with ventral hypoperfusion performed significantly worse on trait attributions in comparison with the non-vmPFC group and healthy controls. All groups performed equally well on causal attributions. These findings support previous research suggesting that the vmPFC is critically involved in enduring trait attribution, but not in temporary causal attribution. Considering the emotional experience of valence, the findings showed more intense valence ratings for negative events and persons. This confirms the role of the vmPFC in the modulation and regulation of negative emotions.

In this autoethnography, I explore the process and emotional experience of trying a new drug to improve my quality of life. In so doing, I synthesise personal history with extant research on chronic illness by analysing ways in which my experiences reflect and reject social norms. I also incorporate perspectives from research on aspirations and attainment, and the mental health consequences of cyclical disappointment. By weaving together lessons from each of these literatures, I articulate an integrative psychosocial understanding of the micro-level processes and experiences involved in illness management as well as the ways that experiences of illness management may require integration of varied sociological insights concerning health. In closing, I draw out theoretical implications for understanding the integration and variation of insights from many areas of health research in the lived experiences of people with chronic conditions. A Virtual Abstract of this article can be seen at: https://youtu.be/5aoaWGItDgM.

Malignant neoplasms of the lymphoid or myeloid cell lines including lymphoma, leukaemia and myeloma are referred to as haematological malignancies. Complementary and alternative treatment options such as meditation practice or yoga are becoming popular by treating all aspects of the disease including physical and psychological symptoms. However, there is still unclear evidence about meditation's effectiveness, and how its practice affects the lives of haematologically-diseased patients. This review aims to assess the benefits and harms of meditation practice as an additional treatment to standard care for adults with haematological malignancies. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, Issue 8, 2015), MEDLINE (1950 to August 2015), databases of ongoing trials, the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (http://www.controlled-trials.com/mrct/), conference proceedings of annual meetings of: the American Society of Hematology; American Society of Clinical Oncology; European Hematology Association; European Congress for Integrative Medicine; and Global Advances in Health and Medicine (2010 to 2015). We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) using meditation practice for adult patients with haematological malignancies. Two review authors independently extracted data from eligible studies and assessed the risk of bias according to predefined criteria. We evaluated quality of life and depression. The other outcomes of overall survival, anxiety, fatigue, quality of sleep and adverse events could not be evaluated, because they were not assessed in the included trial. We included only one small trial published as an abstract article. The included study investigated the effects of meditation practice on patients newly hospitalised with acute leukaemia. Ninety-one participants enrolled in the study, but only 42 participants remained in the trial throughout the six-month follow-up period and were eligible for analysis. There was no information provided about the average age and sex of the study population. We found a high risk for attrition bias and unclear risk for reporting bias, performance and detection bias because of missing data due to abstract publication only, thus we judged the overall risk of bias as high. According to the GRADE criteria, we judged the overall quality of the body of evidence for all predefined outcomes as 'very low', due to the extent of missing data on the study population, and the small sample size.As the abstract publication did not provide numbers and results except P values, we are not able to give more details.Meditation practice might be beneficial for the quality of life of haematologically-diseased patients, with higher scores for participants in the mediation arms compared to the participants in the usual care control group (low quality of evidence). Levels of depression decreased for those practising meditation in both the spiritually-framed meditation group and the secularly-focused meditation group in comparison to the usual care control group, whose levels of depression remained constant (low quality of evidence). The influence of meditation practice on overall survival, fatigue, anxiety, quality of sleep and adverse events remained unclear, as these outcomes were not evaluated in the included trial. To estimate the effects of meditation practice for patients suffering from haematological malignancies, more high quality randomised controlled trials are needed. At present there is not enough information available on the effects of meditation in haematologically-diseased patients to draw any conclusion.

Whether you like a person or not is often appraised in a glance. However, under such short presentation durations stimuli are harder to perceive and, according to hedonic fluency theory-which holds that higher fluency is linked to higher liking-thus, are liked less. Given that liking considerably influences person perception, we tested how shorter and longer presentation durations affect liking for faces and compared this with abstract patterns. To capture facets of fluency of processing we assessed felt fluency, liking, and certainty ratings. Following predictions of fluency theory, longer presentation durations led to higher felt fluency, certainty, and positively affected liking judgments in the abstract patterns. In faces, felt fluency and certainty also increased with longer durations. However, with longer durations, faces were liked less, and liking was not related to felt fluency. In other words, in contrast to hedonic fluency theory, faces are more attractive when only seen for a short amount of time. Thus, fluency does not inevitably lead to more positive evaluations-it rather depends on the stimulus category. We discuss these findings in terms of the special status that faces have with regard to human perception and evaluation.

The aim was to compare cognitive function in older suicide attempters with a population-based comparison group. Hospitalized suicide attempters aged 70 years and older were assessed cognitively at baseline (n = 99) and 1-year follow-up (n = 59). Depression symptoms were rated with the Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Results of cognitive assessments in attempters were compared with results in nonattempter comparison subjects (n = 115) selected among participants in our population-based health studies to yield a similar distribution of MADRS scores. Suicide attempters scored lower on Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) than comparison persons. Among attempters, the mean MMSE score was lower in those with medically serious attempts. Attempters displayed poorer performance on tests of pentagon drawing and abstract thinking compared to comparison persons, and the results remained also after exclusion of those with medically serious attempts. At 1-year follow-up, significant improvement in MADRS scores was observed in the attempters. No evidence of improvement could be shown regarding cognitive deficits. Older suicide attempters may have cognitive deficits, which may in part be related to the attempt itself. This needs to be taken into account when designing intervention strategies.

Previous research has shown that memories cued by concrete concepts, such as objects, are retrieved faster than those cued by more abstract concepts, such as emotions. This effect has been explained by the fact that more memories are directly retrieved from object versus emotion cues. In the present study, we tested whether RT differences between memories cued by emotion versus object terms occur not only because object cues elicit direct retrieval of more memories (Uzer, Lee, & Brown, 2012), but also because of differences in memory generation in response to emotions versus objects. One hundred university students retrieved memories in response to basic-level (e.g. orange), superordinate-level (e.g. plant), and emotion (e.g. surprised) cues. Retrieval speed was measured and participants reported whether memories were directly retrieved or generated on each trial. Results showed that memories were retrieved faster in response to basic-level versus superordinate-level and emotion cues because a) basic-level cues elicited more directly retrieved memories, and b) generating memories was more difficult when cues were abstract versus concrete. These results suggest that generative retrieval is a cue generation process in which additional cues that provide contextual information including the target event are produced. Memories are retrieved more slowly in response to emotion cues in part because emotion labels are less effective cues of appropriate contextual information. This particular finding is inconsistent with the idea that emotion is a primary organizational unit for autobiographical memories. In contrast, the difficulty of emotional memory generation implies that emotions represent low-level event information in the organization of autobiographical memory.

art may signal emotions independently of a biological or social carrier: it might therefore constitute a test case for defining brain mechanisms of generic emotion decoding and the impact of disease states on those mechanisms. This is potentially of particular relevance to diseases in the frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) spectrum. These diseases are often led by emotional impairment despite retained or enhanced artistic interest in at least some patients. However, the processing of emotion from art has not been studied systematically in FTLD. Here we addressed this issue using a novel emotional valence matching task on abstract paintings in patients representing major syndromes of FTLD (behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia, n=11; sematic variant primary progressive aphasia (svPPA), n=7; nonfluent variant primary progressive aphasia (nfvPPA), n=6) relative to healthy older individuals (n=39). Performance on art emotion valence matching was compared between groups taking account of perceptual matching performance and assessed in relation to facial emotion matching using customised control tasks. Neuroanatomical correlates of art emotion processing were assessed using voxel-based morphometry of patients' brain MR images. All patient groups had a deficit of art emotion processing relative to healthy controls; there were no significant interactions between syndromic group and emotion modality. Poorer art emotion valence matching performance was associated with reduced grey matter volume in right lateral occopitotemporal cortex in proximity to regions previously implicated in the processing of dynamic visual signals. Our findings suggest that abstract art may be a useful model system for investigating mechanisms of generic emotion decoding and aesthetic processing in neurodegenerative diseases.

This scoping review was conducted to understand the extent, range, and nature of current research on adolescents and young adults (AYA) with cancer and distress, depression, and anxiety (DDA). This information is necessary to find and aggregate valuable data on the AYA population embedded in generalized studies of DDA. Keyword searches of six relevant electronic databases identified 2156 articles, with 316 selected for abstract review and 40 for full text review. Full-text reviews and data extraction resulted in 34 studies being included, which ranged widely in design, sample size, age-range categorization, analysis methods, DDA measurement tool, overall study rigor, and quality of evidence. Studies very seldom reported using theory to guide their age categorization, with only four studies giving any rationale for their age-group definitions. All 34 studies found a significant association between at least one DDA construct and the younger age group relative to the older age groups at some point along the cancer trajectory. However, age as an independent risk factor for DDA is still unclear, as the relationship could be confounded by other age-related factors. Despite the wide range of definitions and effect sizes in the studies included in this review, one thing is clear: adolescents and young adults, however defined, are a distinct group within the cancer population with an elevated risk of DDA. Widespread adoption of a standard AYA age-range definition will be essential to any future meta-analytical psycho-oncology research in this population.

There is a paucity of effective treatment options to reduce falls in Parkinson disease (PD). Although a variety of rehabilitative approaches have been shown to improve balance, evidence of a reduction in falls has been mixed. Prior balance trials suggest that programs with highly challenging exercises had superior outcomes. We investigated the effects of a theory-driven, progressive, highly challenging group exercise program on fall rate, balance, and fear of falling. Twenty-three subjects with PD participated in this randomized cross-over trial. Subjects were randomly allocated to 3 months of active balance exercises or usual care followed by the reverse. During the active condition, subjects participated in a progressive, highly challenging group exercise program twice weekly for 90 minutes. Outcomes included a change in fall rate over the 3-month active period and differences in balance (Mini-Balance Evaluation Systems Test [Mini-BESTest]), and fear of falling (Falls Efficacy Scale-International [FES-I]) between active and usual care conditions. The effect of time on falls was significant (regression coefficient = -0.015 per day, P < 0.001). The estimated rate ratio comparing incidence rates at time points 1 month apart was 0.632 (95% confidence interval, 0.524-0.763). Thus, there was an estimated 37% decline in fall rate per month (95% confidence interval, 24%-48%). Improvements were also observed on the Mini-BESTest (P = 0.037) and FES-I (P = 0.059). The results of this study show that a theory-based, highly challenging, and progressive exercise program was effective in reducing falls, improving balance, and reducing fear of falling in PD.Video abstract available for more insights from the authors (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A120).

Rumination has been demonstrated to have negative consequences on affect, behaviour, and physiological markers. Recent studies, however, suggest that distinct "modes" of anger-associated rumination may lead to several positive consequences. Previous research primarily used recall procedures of anger episodes to elicit anger. By contrast, the present study focused on the effect of subjective anger on the process of rumination and tested its effects in a "staged" social interaction where a confederate provoked participants. Subsequently, participants engaged in rumination about the anger-eliciting event either in an abstract-distanced or a concrete-immersed rumination mode. Results showed an adaptive effect of abstract-distanced rumination on subjective anger primarily if anger is high prior to rumination. The findings also suggest different self-reported anger-related coping strategies in response to subjective anger intensity. These findings highlight that an abstract-distanced rumination may have differential effects on affective outcomes and anger-related coping strategies.

Decreased fetal movement is associated with adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes; timely reporting and appropriate management may prevent stillbirth. Determine effects of interventions to enhance maternal awareness of decreased fetal movement. Cinahl, The Cochrane Library, EMBASE, MEDLINE, PsycINFO and SCOPUS databases; without limitation on language or publication year. Randomised or non-randomised studies evaluating interventions to enhance maternal awareness of decreased fetal movement. Two authors independently extracted data and assessed quality. We included 23 publications from 16 studies of fair to poor quality. We were unable to pool results due to substantial heterogeneity between studies. Three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and five non-randomised studies (NRSs), involving 72 888 and 115 435 pregnancies, respectively, assessed effects of interventions on stillbirth and perinatal death. One large cluster RCT (n = 68 654) reported no stillbirth reduction, one RCT (n = 3111) reported significant stillbirth reduction, and one RCT (n = 1123) was small with no deaths. All NRSs favoured intervention over standard care; three studies (n = 31 131) reported significant reduction, whereas two studies (n = 84 304) reported non-significant reductions in stillbirth or perinatal deaths. Promising results from NRSs warrant further research. We found no evidence of increased maternal concern following interventions. No cost-effectiveness data were available. We found no clear evidence of benefit or harm; indirect evidence suggests improved pregnancy and birth outcomes. The optimal approach to support women in monitoring their pregnancies needs to be established. Meanwhile, women need to be informed about the importance of fetal movement for fetal health. The benefits and risks of interventions to increase pregnant women's awareness of fetal movement are unclear.

Rosmarinus officinalis, traditionally known as rosemary, has been widely used in traditional medicines and has long been known as the herb of remembrance. However, few studies have investigated the effects of non-volatile components of rosemary on central nervous system function. Fractionation of R. officinalis led to the isolation of salvigenin, rosmanol and cirsimaritin, which were investigated in mouse models of acute toxicity, antinociception (tail immersion and hot plate tests), depression (tail suspension and forced swim tests) and anxiety (elevated plus maze and light/dark box paradigms). Rosmanol, cirsimaritin and salvigenin were not found to exhibit any signs of acute toxicity (50-200 mg/kg), but elicited antinociceptive, antidepressant and anxiolytic activities. Rosmanol, cirsimaritin and salvigenin, all previously shown to have biphasic modulation of GABAA receptors, demonstrated CNS activity in mouse models of antinociception, antidepressant and anxiolysis. The anxiolytic activity of all three compounds was not ameliorated by flumazenil, but was inhibited by pentylenetetrazol, suggesting a mode of action via GABAA receptors at a site other than the high affinity benzodiazepine binding site. This article is open to POST-PUBLICATION REVIEW. Registered readers (see "For Readers") may comment by clicking on ABSTRACT on the issue's contents page.

Recovery is an abstract quantity the definition of which varies according to the pre-dilection of individual institutions, clinicians or patients. While traditionally focused on immediate postoperative restitution of function and readiness for discharge, recovery assessment has progressively expanded its focus to include other clinically relevant time periods, each of which is influenced by specific factors. Assessment tools have progressed from assessing one dimension of recovery, such as physiological variables, to multidimensional assessment of physical, nociceptive, emotive, functional and cognitive performance. They should be validated ideally for repeat measures and should provide real-time recovery data, as recovery can be viewed as a continuous process.

Some of the stimulus features that guide visual attention are abstract properties of objects such as potential threat to one's survival, whereas others are complex configurations such as visual contexts that are learned through past experiences. The present study investigated the two functions that guide visual attention, threat detection and learning of contextual regularities, in visual search. Search arrays contained images of threat and non-threat objects, and their locations were fixed on some trials but random on other trials. Although they were irrelevant to the visual search task, threat objects facilitated attention capture and impaired attention disengagement. Search time improved for fixed configurations more than for random configurations, reflecting learning of visual contexts. Nevertheless, threat detection had little influence on learning of the contextual regularities. The results suggest that factors guiding visual attention are different from factors that influence learning to guide visual attention.

Suicidal behaviour has proved to be difficult to predict, due in part to the particular limitations of introspection within suicidality. In an effort to overcome this, recent research has demonstrated the utility of indirect measures of "implicit" attitudes within the study of suicidality. However, research to date has focused predominantly on implicit self-evaluations and self-death associations. No work has examined implicit evaluations of death, despite the theoretical importance of such evaluations; "fearlessness of death" is central to both the Interpersonal Theory of Suicide and the Integrated Motivational-Volitional model of suicide.. Twenty-three psychiatric patients with current suicidal ideation and twenty-five normative university students completed two versions of the Implicit Relational Assessment Procedure (IRAP) that targeted evaluations of death. One task specified personal death (i.e., was self-focused) and the other targeted death in the abstract. Self-focused evaluations of death reliably distinguished between the two groups, correctly classifying 74% of cases, but evaluations of death in the abstract did not. The suicidal group produced specific biases indicating a rejection of the negativity of death. Results are consistent with the definition of suicidality as involving a self-focused wish to die.. For ethical reason, suicidal behaviours were not assessed in the normative group. Groups were therefore not mutually exclusive. This may have decreased the specificity of the IRAP. Suicidal ideation is associated with an implicit "fearlessness of death". The utility of implicit death-evaluations should therefore be considered alongside self-evaluations and self-death associations in the future..

Neuro Linguistic Programming (NLP) Framework has enjoyed enormous popularity in the field of applied psychology. NLP has been used in business, education, law, medicine and psychotherapy to identify people's patterns and alter their responses to stimuli, so they are better able to regulate their environment and themselves. NLP looks at achieving goals, creating stable relationships, eliminating barriers such as fears and phobias, building self-confidence, and self-esteem, and achieving peak performance. Neuro Linguistic Psychotherapy (NLPt) encompasses NLP as framework and set of interventions in the treatment of individuals with different psychological and/or social problems. We aimed systematically to analyse the available data regarding the effectiveness of Neuro Linguistic Psychotherapy (NLPt). The present work is a meta-analysis of studies, observational or randomized controlled trials, for evaluating the efficacy of Neuro Linguistic Programming in individuals with different psychological and/or social problems. The databases searched to identify studies in English and German language: CENTRAL in the Cochrane Library; PubMed; ISI Web of Knowledge (include results also from Medline and the Web of Science); PsycINFO (including PsycARTICLES); Psyndex; Deutschsprachige Diplomarbeiten der Psychologie (database of theses in Psychology in German language), Social SciSearch; National library of health and two NLP-specific research databases: one from the NLP Community (http://www.nlp.de/cgi-bin/research/nlprdb.cgi?action=res_entries) and one from the NLP Group (http://www.nlpgrup.com/bilimselarastirmalar/bilimsel-arastirmalar-4.html#Zweig154). From a total number of 425 studies, 350 were removed and considered not relevant based on the title and abstract. Included, in the final analysis, are 12 studies with numbers of participants ranging between 12 and 115 subjects. The vast majority of studies were prospective observational. The actual paper represents the first meta-analysis evaluating the effectiveness of NLP therapy for individuals with social/psychological problems. The overall meta-analysis found that the NLP therapy may add an overall standardized mean difference of 0.54 with a confidence interval of CI=[0.20; 0.88]. Neuro-Linguistic Psychotherapy as a psychotherapeutic modality grounded in theoretical frameworks, methodologies and interventions scientifically developed, including models developed by NLP, shows results that can hold its ground in comparison with other psychotherapeutic methods.

It has been shown previously that liking and valence of associations in response to artworks show greater convergence across viewers for representational than for abstract artwork. The current research explored whether the same applies to the semantic content of the associations. We used data gained with an adapted unique corporate association valence measure, which invited 24 participants to give short verbal responses to 11 abstract and 11 representational artworks. We paired the responses randomly to responses given to the same artwork and computed semantic similarity scores using UMBC Ebiquity software. This showed significantly greater semantic similarity scores for representational than for abstract art. A control analysis in which responses were randomly paired with responses from the same category (abstract, representational) showed no significant results, ruling out a baseline effect. For both abstract and representational artworks, randomly paired responses resembled each other less than responses from the same artworks, but the effect was much larger for representational artworks. Our work shows that individuals share semantic associations with other viewers in response to artworks to a greater extent when the artwork is representational than when it is abstract. Our novel method shows potential utility for many areas of psychology that aim to understand the semantic convergence of people's verbal responses, not least aesthetic psychology.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to: Evaluate the evidence regarding parental and child characteristics related to early-onset disordered eating. Eating disorders are rare in children, but disordered eating is common. Understanding the phenomenology of disordered eating in childhood can aid prevention of full-blown eating disorders. The purpose of this review is to systematically extract and synthesize the evidence on parental and child characteristics related to early-onset disordered eating. Systematic searches were conducted in PubMED/MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PsycInfo using the following search terms: eating disorder, disordered eating, problem eating, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, binge eating, child, preadolescent, and early onset. Studies published from 1990 to 2013 addressing parental and child characteristics of disordered eating in children aged 6 to 12 years were eligible for inclusion. The search was restricted to studies with cross-sectional, case-control, or longitudinal designs, studies in English, and with abstracts available. Forty-four studies fit these criteria. Most studies were based on community samples with a cross-sectional design. The included studies varied considerably in size, instruments used to assess early-onset disordered eating, and parental and child characteristics investigated. Important determinants included the following: higher body weight, previously reported disordered eating, body dissatisfaction, depression, parental disordered eating, and parental comments/concerns about child's weight and eating. The findings were inconsistent for sex, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, self-esteem/worth, and parental body weight. In conclusion, characteristics related to early-onset disordered eating have mainly been explored with a cross-sectional design. Full understanding of causal pathways will require good-quality longitudinal studies designed to address the influence of parental eating behaviors, mental and physical health, family interactions, and child growth patterns.

Studies of semantic variables (e.g., concreteness) and affective variables (i.e., valence and arousal) have traditionally tended to run in different directions. However, in recent years there has been growing interest in studying the relationship, as well as the potential overlaps, between the two. This article describes a database that provides subjective ratings for 1,400 Spanish words for valence, arousal, concreteness, imageability, context availability, and familiarity. Data were collected online through a process involving 826 university students. The results showed a high interrater reliability for all of the variables examined, as well as high correlations between our affective and semantic values and norms currently available in other Spanish databases. Regarding the affective variables, the typical quadratic correlation between valence and arousal ratings was obtained. Likewise, significant correlations were found between the lexico-semantic variables. Importantly, we obtained moderate negative correlations between emotionality and both concreteness and imageability. This is in line with the claim that abstract words have more affective associations than concrete ones (Kousta, Vigliocco, Vinson, Andrews, & Del Campo, 2011). The present Spanish database is suitable for experimental research into the effects of both affective properties and lexico-semantic variables on word processing and memory.

Research on the derived transformation of stimulus functions (ToF) typically employs single dependent measures for assessing the stimulus functions after derived relations have been established. For the first time, we examined ToF using three dependent measures both prior to and after relational training and testing. Specifically, we employed self-reports, implicit association tests, and frontal alpha asymmetry as pre versus post measures for assessing ToF. First, we trained two abstract shapes as contextual cues for happier-than and unhappier-than relations, respectively. Next, four conditional discriminations (A+/B-, B+/C-, C+/D-, and D+/E-) were trained in the presence of the happier-than cue only, where A, B, C, D, and E were blurred faces. This was followed by tests for contextually controlled transitive inference (TI) in the presence of both the happier-than and unhappier-than cues. For the participants who demonstrated TI, performance across all three measures following relational training and testing indicated that the "happiness" functions of the A/B stimuli were greater than those of the D/E stimuli. This constitutes the first known demonstration of emotional ToF along explicit, implicit, and neurophysiological measures concurrently.

The use of top-down cognitive control mechanisms to regulate emotional responses as circumstances change is critical for mental and physical health. Several theoretical models of emotion regulation have been postulated; it remains unclear, however, in which brain regions emotion regulation goals (e.g., the downregulation of fear) are represented. Here, we examined the neural mechanisms of regulating emotion using fMRI and identified brain regions representing reappraisal goals. Using a multimethodological analysis approach, combining standard activation-based and pattern-information analyses, we identified a distributed network of lateral frontal, temporal, and parietal regions implicated in reappraisal and within it, a core system that represents reappraisal goals in an abstract, stimulus-independent fashion. Within this core system, the neural pattern-separability in a subset of regions including the left inferior frontal gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, and inferior parietal lobe was related to the success in emotion regulation. Those brain regions might link the prefrontal control regions with the subcortical affective regions. Given the strong association of this subsystem with inner speech functions and semantic memory, we conclude that those cognitive mechanisms may be used for orchestrating emotion regulation. Hum Brain Mapp 37:600-620, 2016. © 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

The recall of positive autobiographical memories (mood repair) is an effective strategy for improving sad mood. In depressed individuals mood repair has shown to be most effective, if the memory was processed in a concrete (imaginable), as opposed to an abstract (verbal) processing mode. However, it is not yet clear whether this also applies to healthy subjects. Moreover we do not know whether intensity and content of an imagery stimulus influences its effectiveness. We report on two experimental studies in healthy participants. Negative emotion induction was followed by mood repair via recall of positive autobiographical memories. In study I, abstract processing was compared to two concrete processing strategies (high concrete/low concrete). In study II, the content of the memories was systematically varied (social/achievement). In study I, a concrete processing resulted in better mood repair, however no differences were found between high and low concrete processing. In study II, both types of memories had comparable effects on mood repair but promoted different emotions. Only a young, healthy, predominantly female population was investigated. Adopting a concrete processing mode when recalling positive memories leads to better mood repair in healthy participants. Moreover, the content of the memory determines the corresponding emotions.

Historically, the manner in which translation ambiguity and emotional content are represented in bilingual memory have often been ignored in many theoretical and empirical investigations, resulting in these linguistic factors related to bilingualism being absent from even the most promising models of bilingual memory representation. However, in recent years it was reported that the number of translations a word has across languages influences the speed with which bilinguals translate concrete and abstract words from one language into another (Tokowicz and Kroll in Lang Cogn Process 22:727-779, 2007). The current work examines how the number of translations that characterize a word influences bilingual lexical organization and the processing of concrete, abstract, and emotional stimuli. In Experiment 1, Spanish-English bilinguals translated concrete and abstract words with one and more than one translation. As reported by Tokowicz and Kroll, concreteness effects emerged only when words had more than one translation across languages. In Experiment 2, bilinguals translated emotion words with more than one translation. Concreteness effects emerged in both language directions for words with more than one translation, and in the L1-L2 language direction for words with a single translation across languages. These findings are discussed in terms of how multiple translations, specifically for emotion words, might be incorporated into current models of bilingual memory representation.

Emotionally focused couple therapy (EFT; Johnson, The practice of emotionally focused couple therapy (1st/2nd edition). Brunner-Routledge, New York, 2004) is an effective treatment of relationship distress (Johnson et al., Clinical Psychology: Science and Practice, 1999; 6, 67). However, less is known about EFT's impact on couples' relationship-specific attachment bond. Using hierarchical linear modeling with a sample of 32 couples, we examined session-by-session changes in couples' relationship-specific attachment anxiety and avoidance and pre- to posttherapy changes in their relationship-specific attachment behaviors. Couples significantly decreased in relationship-specific attachment avoidance, and those who completed a blamer softening significantly decreased in relationship-specific attachment anxiety. Couples' attachment behavior significantly increased toward security. Finally, session-by-session decreases in relationship-specific attachment anxiety and avoidance were significant associated with increases in relationship satisfaction across sessions. These results provide empirical support for the attachment-based assumptions of EFT. Video abstract accessible by clicking here.

To systematically review whether the provision of information on cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk to healthcare professionals and patients impacts their decision-making, behaviour and ultimately patient health. A systematic review. An electronic literature search of MEDLINE and PubMed from 01/01/2004 to 01/06/2013 with no language restriction and manual screening of reference lists of systematic reviews on similar topics and all included papers. (1) Primary research published in a peer-reviewed journal; (2) inclusion of participants with no history of CVD; (3) intervention strategy consisted of provision of a CVD risk model estimate to either professionals or patients; and (4) the only difference between the intervention group and control group (or the only intervention in the case of before-after studies) was the provision of a CVD risk model estimate. After duplicates were removed, the initial electronic search identified 9671 papers. We screened 196 papers at title and abstract level and included 17 studies. The heterogeneity of the studies limited the analysis, but together they showed that provision of risk information to patients improved the accuracy of risk perception without decreasing quality of life or increasing anxiety, but had little effect on lifestyle. Providing risk information to physicians increased prescribing of lipid-lowering and blood pressure medication, with greatest effects in those with CVD risk >20% (relative risk for change in prescribing 2.13 (1.02 to 4.63) and 2.38 (1.11 to 5.10) respectively). Overall, there was a trend towards reductions in cholesterol and blood pressure and a statistically significant reduction in modelled CVD risk (-0.39% (-0.71 to -0.07)) after, on average, 12 months. There seems evidence that providing CVD risk model estimates to professionals and patients improves perceived CVD risk and medical prescribing, with little evidence of harm on psychological well-being.

People with a severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) often experience problems understanding non-literal utterances such as sarcasm and lies in dyadic exchanges. This study aimed to investigate whether these problems extend to settings where speakers vary in their degree of sincerity and whether such problems are associated with deficits in social cognitive abilities (emotion perception, theory of mind, and self-reported empathy) or cognitive abilities (abstract reasoning, working memory, processing speed, attentional switching). Thirty-one adults with severe TBI (24 males) and 25 demographically matched controls (20 males) participated. They watched video vignettes depicting four actors volunteering for additional duties. Each speaker made a limited verbal response which literally suggested a willingness to be involved, but the sincerity with which the response was made was tempered by the actor's emotional demeanour. Participants rated each speaker in the vignettes for degree of sincerity (0-100%). Standardized measures of cognitive and social cognitive function were also taken. Control participants had excellent agreement (α = .90) in their rankings of actors according to sincerity. TBI participants were less consistent (α = .65). Overall, they were sensitive to decreasing sincerity but generally less accurate than control participants. They were poorer at differentiating between levels of sincerity and rated insincere expressions as more sincere, although they rated sincere expressions similarly. Poorer working memory and poorer social cognition were associated with poorer sincerity/sarcasm detection in the participants with TBI, but only social cognition was uniquely associated. Some adults with TBI have difficulty assessing the level of sincerity of speakers. Moreover, poorer social cognition abilities are associated with this difficulty.

Emotions are often expressed metaphorically, and both emotion and metaphor are ways through which abstract meaning can be grounded in language. Here we investigate specifically whether motion-related verbs when used metaphorically are differentially sensitive to a preceding emotional context, as compared to when they are used in a literal manner. Participants read stories that ended with ambiguous action/motion sentences (e.g., he got it), in which the action/motion could be interpreted metaphorically (he understood the idea) or literally (he caught the ball) depending on the preceding story. Orthogonal to the metaphorical manipulation, the stories were high or low in emotional content. The results showed that emotional context modulated the neural response in visual motion areas to the metaphorical interpretation of the sentences, but not to their literal interpretations. In addition, literal interpretations of the target sentences led to stronger activation in the visual motion areas as compared to metaphorical readings of the sentences. We interpret our results as suggesting that emotional context specifically modulates mental simulation during metaphor processing.

A primed lexical decision task (LDT) was used to determine whether emotion (e.g., love, fear) and emotion-laden (e.g., puppy, hospital) word processing differs, both explicitly and implicitly. Previous experiments have investigated how emotion word processing differs from both abstract and concrete word processing (Altarriba & Bauer, 2004; Altarriba, Bauer, & Benvenuto, 1999). To assess for differences between emotion and emotion-laden word processing, 2 experiments were conducted, the first assessing explicit processing (using an unmasked LDT) and the second assessing automatic processing (using a masked LDT). The prediction that semantic priming would differ between emotion word pairs and emotion-laden word pairs was confirmed in both experiments, with shorter response times for emotion targets and greater priming effects for emotion word pairs than for emotion-laden word pairs. The role of valence is discussed, emphasizing the ways valence affects the speed with which these words are accessed and processed.

Semantic knowledge is thought to be at least partially grounded in sensory, motor, and affective information, acquired through experiences in our inner and outer world. The reactivation of experience-related information during meaning access is called simulation. In the affective simulation account, it is assumed that the grounding information depends on the concepts' concreteness. Whereas abstract concepts are thought to be mainly represented through affective experiential information, concrete words rely more on sensory-motor experiential information. To test this hypothesis, we measured facial muscle activity as an indicator of affective simulation during visual word recognition. Words varied on the dimensions of concreteness and valence. Behavioral and electromyographic data were analyzed with linear mixed-effects models with maximal random effect structure to optimize generalization over participants and word samples. Contrary to this hypothesis, we found a valence effect in the m. corrugator supercilii only in response to concrete but not to abstract words. Our data show that affective simulation as measured with facial muscle activity occurs in response to concrete rather than to abstract words. More concrete words are supposed to have higher context availability and richer visual imagery, which might promote affective simulation on the expressive level of facial muscle activity. The results are in line with embodied accounts of semantic representation but speak against its predominant role for representing affective information in abstract concepts.

In this research, we examined whether emotional valence could correspond to a continuous lateral bias in space, according to a mental metaphor that establishes the mapping between a concrete domain (space) and an abstract one (valence). Because acting with one's dominant hand is associated with fluency and positive valence (the bodily specificity hypothesis, or BSH), we asked strong right- and left-handers to perform two spatial location tasks using emotional faces with seven levels of valence. We hypothesized and showed through two studies that, according to the BSH, extreme valenced stimuli (as compared to moderate and weak ones) would be located more at the extremity of a horizontal line, according to the correspondences between handedness and the different valences of the stimuli. This research establishes that spatial and continuous mapping of emotions was obtained while controlling for motivational direction.

To identify the impact of industry involvement in the publication and interpretation of meta-analyses of antidepressant trials in depression. Using MEDLINE, we identified all meta-analyses evaluating antidepressants for depression published in January 2007-March 2014. We extracted data pertaining to author affiliations, conflicts of interest, and whether the conclusion of the abstract included negative statements on whether the antidepressant(s) were effective or safe. We identified 185 eligible meta-analyses. Fifty-four meta-analyses (29%) had authors who were employees of the assessed drug manufacturer, and 147 (79%) had some industry link (sponsorship or authors who were industry employees and/or had conflicts of interest). Only 58 meta-analyses (31%) had negative statements in the concluding statement of the abstract. Meta-analyses including an author who were employees of the manufacturer of the assessed drug were 22-fold less likely to have negative statements about the drug than other meta-analyses [1/54 (2%) vs. 57/131 (44%); P < 0.001]. There is a massive production of meta-analyses of antidepressants for depression authored by or linked to the industry, and they almost never report any caveats about antidepressants in their abstracts. Our findings add a note of caution for meta-analyses with ties to the manufacturers of the assessed products.

The purpose of this review was to assess recent research (the last 18 months) and its impact on understanding sexual pain disorders relevant to daily clinical practice. It has been highlighted that sexual pain is related to the number of tender points, pressure pain threshold, more deliberate fear and less global positive affective associations with sexual stimuli, episiotomy, attachment styles, drug abuse and the influence of ambivalence over emotional expression in couples.The efficacy of a multidisciplinary vulvodynia programme of treatment, another type of therapy based on the fear-avoidance and pain self-efficacy model and a novel cognitive-behavioral couple therapy has been stated. There is a gradual advance in the knowledge of sexual pain disorder etiology. At the same time different therapeutics strategies have been increasing, but it is necessary to introduce guidelines on the basis of the evidence to approach with efficacy this severe disorder. http://links.lww.com/YCO/A31.

Embodied cognition holds that abstract concepts are grounded in perceptual-motor simulations. If a given embodied metaphor maps onto a spatial representation, then thinking of that concept should bias the allocation of attention. In this study, we used positive and negative self-esteem words to examine two properties of conceptual cueing. First, we tested the orientation-specificity hypothesis, which predicts that conceptual cues should selectively activate certain spatial axes (in this case, valenced self-esteem concepts should activate vertical space), instead of any spatial continuum. Second, we tested whether conceptual cueing requires semantic processing, or if it can be achieved with shallow visual processing of the cue words. Participants viewed centrally presented words consisting of high or low self-esteem traits (e.g., brave, timid) before detecting a target above or below the cue in the vertical condition, or on the left or right of the word in the horizontal condition. Participants were faster to detect targets when their location was compatible with the valence of the word cues, but only in the vertical condition. Moreover, this effect was observed when participants processed the semantics of the word, but not when processing its orthography. The results show that conceptual cueing by spatial metaphors is orientation-specific, and that an explicit consideration of the word cues' semantics is required for conceptual cueing to occur.

People cleave to ideological convictions with greater intensity in the aftermath of threat. The posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC) plays a key role in both detecting discrepancies between desired and current conditions and adjusting subsequent behavior to resolve such conflicts. Building on prior literature examining the role of the pMFC in shifts in relatively low-level decision processes, we demonstrate that the pMFC mediates adjustments in adherence to political and religious ideologies. We presented participants with a reminder of death and a critique of their in-group ostensibly written by a member of an out-group, then experimentally decreased both avowed belief in God and out-group derogation by downregulating pMFC activity via transcranial magnetic stimulation. The results provide the first evidence that group prejudice and religious belief are susceptible to targeted neuromodulation, and point to a shared cognitive mechanism underlying concrete and abstract decision processes. We discuss the implications of these findings for further research characterizing the cognitive and affective mechanisms at play.

Abnormal abstract thinking is a major cause of social dysfunction in patients with schizophrenia, but little is known about its neural basis. In this study, we aimed to determine the characteristic abstract thinking-related brain responses in patients using a task reflecting social situations. We conducted functional magnetic resonance imaging while 16 patients with schizophrenia and 16 healthy controls performed a theme-identification task, in which various emotional pictures depicting social situations were presented. Compared with healthy controls, the patients showed significantly decreased activity in the left frontopolar and right orbitofrontal cortices during theme identification. Activity in these two regions correlated well in the controls, but not in patients. Instead, the patients exhibited a close correlation between activity in both sides of the frontopolar cortex, and a positive correlation between the right orbitofrontal cortex activity and degrees of theme identification. Reduced activity in the left frontopolar and right orbitofrontal cortices and the underlying aberrant connectivity may be implicated in the patients' deficits in abstract thinking. These newly identified features of the neural basis of abnormal abstract thinking are important as they have implications for the impaired social behavior of patients with schizophrenia during real-life situations.

Extracting general rules from specific examples is important, as we must face the same challenge displayed in various formats. Previous studies have found that bimodal presentation of grammar-like rules (e.g. ABA) enhanced 5-month-olds' capacity to acquire a rule that infants failed to learn when the rule was presented with visual presentation of the shapes alone (circle-triangle-circle) or auditory presentation of the syllables (la-ba-la) alone. However, the mechanisms and constraints for this bimodal learning facilitation are still unknown. In this study, we used audio-visual relation congruency between bimodal stimulation to disentangle possible facilitation sources. We exposed 8- to 10-month-old infants to an AAB sequence consisting of visual faces with affective expressions and/or auditory voices conveying emotions. Our results showed that infants were able to distinguish the learned AAB rule from other novel rules under bimodal stimulation when the affects in audio and visual stimuli were congruently paired (Experiments 1A and 2A). Infants failed to acquire the same rule when audio-visual stimuli were incongruently matched (Experiment 2B) and when only the visual (Experiment 1B) or the audio (Experiment 1C) stimuli were presented. Our results highlight that bimodal facilitation in infant rule learning is not only dependent on better statistical probability and redundant sensory information, but also the relational congruency of audio-visual information. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=KYTyjH1k9RQ.

Across cultures and throughout recorded history, humans have produced visual art. This raises the question of why people report such an emotional response to artworks and find some works more beautiful or compelling than others. In the current study we investigated the interplay between art expertise, and emotional and preference judgments. Sixty participants (40 novices, 20 art experts) rated a set of 150 abstract artworks and portraits during two occasions: in a laboratory setting and in a museum. Before commencing their second session, half of the art novices received a brief training on stylistic and art historical aspects of abstract art and portraiture. Results showed that art experts rated the artworks higher than novices on aesthetic facets (beauty and wanting), but no group differences were observed on affective evaluations (valence and arousal). The training session made a small effect on ratings of preference compared to the non-trained group of novices. Overall, these findings are consistent with the idea that affective components of art appreciation are less driven by expertise and largely consistent across observers, while more cognitive aspects of aesthetic viewing depend on viewer characteristics such as art expertise.

Psychological theories disagree on how we attribute emotions to people. A new neuroimaging study shows that such attributions involve a large number of abstract features, rather than a small set of emotion categories.

Emotions have a profound influence on aesthetic experiences. Studies using affective priming procedures demonstrate, for example, that inducing a conscious negative emotional state biases the perception of abstract stimuli towards the sublime (Eskine et al. Emotion 12:1071-1074, 2012. doi: 10.1037/a0027200). Moreover, subliminal happy facial expressions have a positive impact on the aesthetic evaluation of abstract art (Flexas et al. PLoS ONE 8:e80154, 2013). Little is known about how emotion influences aesthetic perception of non-abstract, representational stimuli, especially those that are particularly relevant for social behaviour, like human bodies. Here, we explore whether the subliminal presentation of emotionally charged visual primes modulates the explicit subjective aesthetic judgment of body images. Using a forward/backward masking procedure, we presented subliminally positive and negative, arousal-matched, emotional or neutral primes and measured their effect on the explicit evaluation of perceived beauty (high vs low) and emotion (positive vs negative) evoked by abstract and body images. We found that negative primes increased subjective aesthetic evaluations of target bodies or abstract images in comparison with positive primes. No influence of primes on the emotional dimension of the targets was found, thus ruling out an unspecific arousal effect and strengthening the link between emotional valence and aesthetic appreciation. More specifically, that subliminal negative primes increase beauty ratings compared to subliminal positive primes indicates a clear link between negative emotions and positive aesthetic evaluations and vice versa, suggesting a possible link between negative emotion and the experience of sublime in art. The study expands previous research by showing the effect of subliminal negative emotions on the subjective aesthetic evaluation not only of abstract but also of body images.

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is an effective depression treatment, but it has potential cognitive side effects. Ultrabrief pulse (UBP) right unilateral (RUL) ECT is an increasingly used treatment option that can potentially combine efficacy with lesser cognitive side effects. However, current trials are underpowered or have conflicting results. A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the relative efficacy and cognitive effects of brief pulse (BP) and UBP RUL ECT. MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CENTRAL, DARE, and the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform were searched with the search terms ECT, electroconvulsive therapy, electroconvulsive shock, electroconvulsive shock therapy, electrical stimulation, electroconvulsive combined with brief, ultra*, pulse, and trial in English, all fields including title, abstract, subject heading, and full text up to June 20, 2013, for studies comparing BP and UBP RUL ECT in depressed patients that reported formalized mood ratings for depression. Six studies met the inclusion criteria, comprising a total of 689 patients. Efficacy, cognitive, response, and remission outcomes were extracted from each publication or obtained directly from authors. BP RUL ECT was significantly more efficacious in treating depression than UBP RUL ECT (standardized mean difference = 0.25; 95% CI, 0.08–0.41; P = .004) but showed significantly more cognitive side effects in all cognitive domains examined (global cognition, anterograde learning and recall, retrograde memory) (P < .01). The mean number of treatment sessions given was 8.7 for BP ECT and 9.6 for UBP ECT (P < .001). UBP had a lower remission rate (OR = 0.71; 95% CI, 0.51–0.99; P = .045), with a number needed to treat of 12.1. BP compared with UBP RUL ECT was slightly more efficacious in treating depression and required fewer treatment sessions, but led to greater cognitive side effects. The decision of whether to use BP or UBP RUL ECT should be made on an individual patient basis and should be based on a careful weighing of the relative priorities of efficacy versus minimization of cognitive impairment.

Research on emotion attribution has tended to focus on the perception of overt expressions of at most five or six basic emotions. However, our ability to identify others' emotional states is not limited to perception of these canonical expressions. Instead, we make fine-grained inferences about what others feel based on the situations they encounter, relying on knowledge of the eliciting conditions for different emotions. In the present research, we provide convergent behavioral and neural evidence concerning the representations underlying these concepts. First, we find that patterns of activity in mentalizing regions contain information about subtle emotional distinctions conveyed through verbal descriptions of eliciting situations. Second, we identify a space of abstract situation features that well captures the emotion discriminations subjects make behaviorally and show that this feature space outperforms competing models in capturing the similarity space of neural patterns in these regions. Together, the data suggest that our knowledge of others' emotions is abstract and high dimensional, that brain regions selective for mental state reasoning support relatively subtle distinctions between emotion concepts, and that the neural representations in these regions are not reducible to more primitive affective dimensions such as valence and arousal.

What determines what we see? In contrast to the traditional "modular" understanding of perception, according to which visual processing is encapsulated from higher-level cognition, a tidal wave of recent research alleges that states such as beliefs, desires, emotions, motivations, intentions, and linguistic representations exert direct, top-down influences on what we see. There is a growing consensus that such effects are ubiquitous, and that the distinction between perception and cognition may itself be unsustainable. We argue otherwise: None of these hundreds of studies - either individually or collectively - provides compelling evidence for true top-down effects on perception, or "cognitive penetrability." In particular, and despite their variety, we suggest that these studies all fall prey to only a handful of pitfalls. And whereas abstract theoretical challenges have failed to resolve this debate in the past, our presentation of these pitfalls is empirically anchored: In each case, we show not only how certain studies could be susceptible to the pitfall (in principle), but also how several alleged top-down effects actually are explained by the pitfall (in practice). Moreover, these pitfalls are perfectly general, with each applying to dozens of other top-down effects. We conclude by extracting the lessons provided by these pitfalls into a checklist that future work could use to convincingly demonstrate top-down effects on visual perception. The discovery of substantive top-down effects of cognition on perception would revolutionize our understanding of how the mind is organized; but without addressing these pitfalls, no such empirical report will license such exciting conclusions.

The present paper investigates whether the processing of emotion language in the context of a second language (L2) entails motor simulations and whether simulation models extend to negation also for L2. Participants were exposed to sentences in L2 describing emotional expressions while facial muscle activity was continuously measured. Sentences mapped either directly upon the zygomatic muscle (e.g., "I am smiling") or did not (e.g., "I am frowning"), and were presented in the affirmative and negative form. Similarly to studies involving first language (L1), the zygomatic muscle was activated when reading affirmative sentences relevant to the muscle. In contrast, and differently from what previously observed in L1, reading sentences in the negative form ("I am not smiling") did not lead to relaxation/inhibition of the zygomatic muscle. These results extend the simulation models to the comprehension of L2 but they also provide important constraints and contribute to the debate about grounding of the abstract and concrete concepts.

Psychiatrists and other mental health professionals typically assist with evaluating and treating psychiatric and behavioral issues in transplant candidates, recipients, and living organ donors. In this review recent findings on specific psychiatric issues in adult solid organ transplant candidates and recipients, as well as living donors are discussed as well as their relevance to clinical practice. Patients with complex mental health and addiction histories can have outcomes similar to patients without these disorders but may require specialized pretransplant preparation or posttransplant interventions to optimize their outcomes. Specific attention to the preparation and wellbeing of living donors is needed. As transplant programmes increasingly consider patients with complex mental health histories, psychiatrists, and mental health professionals evaluating and treating these patients need to consider plans for early identification and treatment. Psychiatric care provided across the preoperative to postoperative periods will best address the longitudinal care needs of patients with mental health disorders. Abstinence from substances and complete adherence to medical directives provides the best chance for optimal outcomes. Treatment of depression may improve transplant outcomes. Research is needed to identify effective interventions and the best strategies to engage patients to improve adherence. http://links.lww.com/YCO/A30.

Although colposcopy is the leading follow-up option for women with abnormal cervical cytology, little is known about its psychological consequences. We performed a systematic review to examine: (1) what, if any, are the adverse psychological outcomes following colposcopy and related procedures; (2) what are the predictors of adverse psychological outcomes post-colposcopy; and (3) what happens to these outcomes over time. Five electronic databases (PubMed, PsychINFO, CINAHL, Web of Science, Scopus) were searched for studies published in English between January 1986 and February 2014. Eligible studies assessed psychological wellbeing at one or more time-points post-colposcopy. Two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts. Full texts of potentially eligible papers were reviewed. Data were abstracted from, and a quality appraisal performed of, eligible papers. Twenty-three papers reporting 16 studies were eligible. Colposcopy and related procedures can lead to adverse psychological outcomes, particularly anxiety. Ten studies investigated predictors of adverse psychological outcomes; management type and treatment had no impact on this. Seven studies investigated temporal trends in psychological outcomes post-colposcopy; findings were mixed, especially in relation to anxiety and distress. Studies were methodologically heterogeneous. Follow-up investigations and procedures for abnormal cervical cytology can cause adverse psychological outcomes among women. However, little is known about the predictors of these outcomes or how long they persist. There is a need for a more standardised approach to the examination of the psychological impact of colposcopy, especially longer-term outcomes. Follow-up investigations for abnormal cervical cytology can cause adverse psychological outcome among women.

Semantic deficits are often reported in even the very early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but investigations usually focus on concrete and non-emotional entities, ignoring the broad range of concepts that feature in everyday conversations. Emotional concepts (e.g., snake) have been found to be processed more accurately than neutral ones (e.g., chair) in AD. Our aim here was therefore to explore the dimensions of both concreteness and emotion within the semantic framework, and in particular to determine whether abstract emotional words (e.g., grief) are processed as accurately as concrete emotional ones (e.g., snake) in AD. We administered a semantic priming (SP) task (lexical decision), yielding an implicit measurement of semantic memory, to 15 patients with AD and 31 normal controls. Concrete and abstract word pairs either shared a semantic relationship (e.g., table-chair, motive-reason), a semantic and emotional relationship (e.g., snake-viper; grief-sadness), or no relationship at all (e.g., pencil-horse). On the basis of response time differences between these conditions, we obtained four SP scores: concrete neutral SP, abstract neutral SP, concrete emotional SP, and abstract emotional SP. In the AD group, the SP score for abstract neutral concepts was not significant, and significantly below the other three SP scores, that seems to reflect a major deterioration in these concepts. An abnormal hyperpriming effect was observed in the concrete neutral SP condition (SP score significantly higher than that of controls), reflecting a partial deterioration in these concepts. These results suggest that, without an emotional relationship, abstract words deteriorate more quickly than concrete words. No such dissociation linked to the concreteness effect was observed with emotional words. Therefore, in AD, emotional concepts would be affected later, be they concrete or abstract.

Appropriate reactions toward emotional stimuli depend on the distribution of prefrontal attentional resources. In mid-adolescence, prefrontal top-down control systems are less engaged, while subcortical bottom-up emotional systems are more engaged. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to follow the neural development of attentional distribution, i.e. attending versus ignoring emotional stimuli, in adolescence. 144 healthy adolescents were studied longitudinally at age 14 and 16 while performing a perceptual discrimination task. Participants viewed two pairs of stimuli--one emotional, one abstract--and reported on one pair whether the items were the same or different, while ignoring the other pair. Hence, two experimental conditions were created: "attending emotion/ignoring abstract" and "ignoring emotion/attending abstract". Emotional valence varied between negative, positive, and neutral. Across conditions, reaction times and error rates decreased and activation in the anterior cingulate and inferior frontal gyrus increased from age 14 to 16. In contrast, subcortical regions showed no developmental effect. Activation of the anterior insula increased across ages for attending positive and ignoring negative emotions. Results suggest an ongoing development of prefrontal top-down resources elicited by emotional attention from age 14 to 16 while activity of subcortical regions representing bottom-up processing remains stable.

Prior research has found dampened anticipatory pleasure but relatively intact consummatory pleasure in people with first-episode and more chronic schizophrenia, but no study has examined anticipatory and consummatory pleasure across the schizophrenia spectrum. To confirm the factor structure of the Chinese version of the Temporal Experience Pleasure Scale (TEPS), which measures four components of anhedonia, we recruited 364 people with schizophrenia for confirmatory factor analysis. To examine anhedonia in people across the schizophrenia spectrum, we recruited people with first-episode (n=76) and chronic schizophrenia (n=45), people with schizotypal traits (n=210), first-degree relatives (n=45) of people with schizophrenia and healthy controls. Deficit in abstract anticipatory pleasure appeared to be most severe in people with chronic schizophrenia, while dampened abstract consummatory pleasure was observed in people with schizotypal personality features and in people with chronic schizophrenia. In addition, both abstract anticipatory and abstract consummatory pleasure were negatively correlated with negative schizotypal personality features and schizophrenia symptoms. Our results suggest that deficits in anticipatory pleasure are present across the schizophrenia spectrum, particularly in the abstract domain.

We examined the finding that aesthetic evaluations are more similar across observers for representational images than for abstract images. It has been proposed that a difference in convergence of observers' tastes is due to differing levels of shared semantic associations (Vessel & Rubin, 2010). In Experiment 1, student participants rated 20 representational and 20 abstract artworks. We found that their judgments were more similar for representational than abstract artworks. In Experiment 2, we replicated this finding, and also found that valence ratings given to associations and meanings provided in response to the artworks converged more across observers for representational than for abstract art. Our empirical work provides insight into processes that may underlie the observation that taste for representational art is shared across individual observers, while taste for abstract art is more idiosyncratic.

Long-term test-retest reliability and predictive test-criterion evidence of validity of scores on measures of the real-ideal self-discrepancy and of the real-ought self-discrepancy were tested over periods of 1 year and 3 years. A sample of 184 undergraduates completed at 2 time points 1 year apart 3 instruments that each measure the 2 self-discrepancies: the idiographic Self-Concept Questionnaire-Personal Constructs, the nonidiographic Self-Concept Questionnaire-Conventional Constructs, and the content-free Abstract Measures. A separate sample of 141 undergraduates completed the instruments 3 years apart. Both samples completed 3 depression instruments and 3 anxiety instruments at the second time point. Results of analyses using latent variables modeled with 3 observed variables showed substantial statistically significant test-retest reliabilities and significant test-criterion prediction of anxiety and depression on the real-ideal and real-ought discrepancy measures over both time periods. Results for the observed variables showed significant 1-year and 3-year reliabilities for scores on all self-discrepancy measures, as well as significant 1-year and 3-year predictive validity for scores on all self-discrepancy measures, except the abstract measure of real-ought discrepancy in predicting scores on all depression measures and on at least 1 anxiety measure. The findings support very strong long-term stabilities of the self-discrepancy personality constructs and their long-term associations with anxiety and depression.

Science has changed many of our dearly held and commonsensical (but incorrect) beliefs. For example, few still believe the world is flat, and few still believe the sun orbits the earth. Few still believe humans are unrelated to the rest of the animal kingdom, and soon few will believe human thinking is computer-like. Instead, as with all animals, our thoughts are based on bodily experiences, and our thoughts and behaviors are controlled by bodily and neural systems of perception, action, and emotion interacting with the physical and social environments. We are embodied; nothing more. Embodied cognition is about cognition formatted in sensorimotor experience, and sensorimotor systems make those thoughts dynamic. Even processes that seem abstract, such as language comprehension and goal understanding, are embodied. Thus, embodied cognition is not limited to 1 type of thought or another: It is cognition.

Many repatriates find it challenging to readjust to their heritage culture after spending a significant period of time abroad. Research on predictors of readjustment, however, remains limited. The present study in particular investigated the identification of third culture individuals (TCIs) - that is, individuals who spent their formative years outside of their heritage culture - with an abstract, third culture. Our findings demonstrated that TCIs' identification with the third culture was empirically distinct from that of the heritage and host cultures. The present study further examined whether several variables - sojourner type (TCI vs. non-TCI), perceived conflict between heritage and host culture, perceived cultural distance, and cultural identification with heritage and other cultures - predicted psychological readjustment (stress, anxiety, depression and overall psychological readjustment). The results showed that strong heritage culture identification was associated with better psychological readjustment, whereas cultural conflict was generally associated with poorer readjustment. Furthermore, sojourner type significantly moderated the latter association, such that cultural conflict predicted the stress aspect of psychological readjustment for non-TCIs, but not for TCIs. As the present investigation is the first study to empirically establish identification with a 'third culture' we discuss implications for the literature on third culture individuals and psychological adjustment upon re-entry.

In this article, I discuss some of the latest functional neuroimaging findings on the organization of object concepts in the human brain. I argue that these data provide strong support for viewing concepts as the products of highly interactive neural circuits grounded in the action, perception, and emotion systems. The nodes of these circuits are defined by regions representing specific object properties (e.g., form, color, and motion) and thus are property-specific, rather than strictly modality-specific. How these circuits are modified by external and internal environmental demands, the distinction between representational content and format, and the grounding of abstract social concepts are also discussed.

Sickle cell disease comprises a group of genetic blood disorders. It occurs when the sickle haemoglobin gene is inherited from both parents. The effects of the condition are: varying degrees of anaemia which, if severe, can reduce mobility; a tendency for small blood capillaries to become blocked causing pain in muscle and bone commonly known as 'crises'; damage to major organs such as the spleen, liver, kidneys, and lungs; and increased vulnerability to severe infections. There are both medical and non-medical complications, and treatment is usually symptomatic and palliative in nature. Psychological interventions for individuals with sickle cell disease might complement current medical treatment, and studies of their efficacy have yielded encouraging results. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. To examine the evidence that psychological interventions improve the ability of people with sickle cell disease to cope with their condition. We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and the Internet, handsearches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Date of the most recent search of the Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 17 February 2015. All randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing psychological interventions with no (psychological) intervention in people with sickle cell disease. Both authors independently extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of the included studies. Twelve studies were identified in the searches and seven of these were eligible for inclusion in the review. Five studies, involving 260 participants, provided data for analysis. One study showed that cognitive behaviour therapy significantly reduced the affective component of pain (feelings about pain), mean difference -0.99 (95% confidence interval -1.62 to -0.36), but not the sensory component (pain intensity), mean difference 0.00 (95% confidence interval -9.39 to 9.39). One study of family psycho-education was not associated with a reduction in depression. Another study evaluating cognitive behavioural therapy had inconclusive results for the assessment of coping strategies, and showed no difference between groups assessed on health service utilisation. In addition, family home-based cognitive behavioural therapy did not show any difference compared to disease education. One study of patient education on health beliefs showed a significant improvement in attitudes towards health workers, mean difference -4.39 (95% CI -6.45 to -2.33) and medication, mean difference -1.74 (95% CI -2.98 to -0.50). Nonetheless, these results may not apply across all ages, severity of sickle cell disease, types of pain (acute or chronic), or setting. Evidence for the efficacy of psychological therapies in sickle cell disease is currently limited. This systematic review has clearly identified the need for well-designed, adequately-powered, multicentre randomised controlled trials assessing the effectiveness of specific interventions in sickle cell disease.

We distinguish two evaluative systems which evoke automatic and reflective emotions. Automatic emotions are direct reactions to stimuli whereas reflective emotions are always based on verbalized (and often abstract) criteria of evaluation. We conducted an electroencephalography (EEG) study in which 25 women were required to read and respond to emotional words which engaged either the automatic or reflective system. Stimulus words were emotional (positive or negative) and neutral. We found an effect of valence on an early response with dipolar fronto-occipital topography; positive words evoked a higher amplitude response than negative words. We also found that topographically specific differences in the amplitude of the late positive complex were related to the system involved in processing. Emotional stimuli engaging the automatic system were associated with significantly higher amplitudes in the left-parietal region; the response to neutral words was similar regardless of the system engaged. A different pattern of effects was observed in the central region, neutral stimuli engaging the reflective system evoked a higher amplitudes response whereas there was no system effect for emotional stimuli. These differences could not be reduced to effects of differences between the arousing properties and concreteness of the words used as stimuli.

The purpose of this study was to determine the effect viewing directives can have when encountering art in hospitals. A secondary objective of the study was to understand the responses of viewers to an art exhibit on the theme of medical student empathy toward patient pain and suffering. Displaying art in hospitals has been credited with increasing well-being of patients, visitors, and staff. Generally, hospital curators have focused on the type of art to display (natural, symbolic, and abstract). This focus has neglected the possibility that in addition to the type of art, the way that viewers engage art may also be responsible for the healing effect. Participants (n = 97) were randomly allocated into one of the viewing directives: (1) reflecting on one artwork, (2) creating a drawing or poem in response to one artwork, or (3) no direction. Prior to looking at the art and immediately after, participants were administered the Brief Mood Introspection Scale (BMIS) and offered an opportunity to participate in an interview. Pre-post results of the BMIS demonstrated that viewers who received directions achieved some therapeutic effect. Qualitative themes from the post-exhibit interviews identified that the empathy themed exhibit was well received, although there were differences among responses from patients, visitors, and staff. The results imply that hospitals may consider offering prompts to help viewers engage with art to enhance mood and exhibiting art that demonstrates empathy for patient suffering.

Interest in monitoring long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes of children born moderate-to-late preterm (32-36 weeks gestation) is increasing. Moderate-to-late preterm birth has a negative impact on academic achievement, which may relate to differential development of executive function (EF). Prior studies reporting deficits in EF in preterm children have almost exclusively assessed EF in affectively neutral contexts in high-risk preterm children (< 32 weeks gestation). Disrupted function in motivational or emotionally charged contexts (hot EF) following preterm birth remains uninvestigated, despite evidence that preterm children show differential development of neural circuitry subserving hot EF, including reduced orbitofrontal cortex volume. The present study is the first to examine whether low-risk, healthy children born moderate-to-late preterm exhibit impairments in the development of hot EF. Preterm children at age 4.5 years were less likely to choose larger, delayed rewards across all levels of reward magnitude on a delay discounting task using tangible rewards, but performed more similarly to their full-term peers on a delay aversion task involving abstract rewards and on measures of cool EF. The relationship between gestational age at birth and selection of delayed rewards extended across the entire gestational age range of the sample (32-42 weeks), and remained significant after controlling for intelligence and processing speed. Results imply that there is not a finite cut-off point at which children are spared from potential long-term neurodevelopmental effects of PT birth. Further investigation of reward processing and hot EF in individuals with a history of PT birth is warranted given the susceptibility of prefrontal cortex development to early environmental variations.

Emotions can be aroused by various kinds of stimulus modalities. Recent neuroimaging studies indicate that several brain regions represent emotions at an abstract level, i.e., independently from the sensory cues from which they are perceived (e.g., face, body, or voice stimuli). If emotions are indeed represented at such an abstract level, then these abstract representations should also be activated by the memory of an emotional event. We tested this hypothesis by asking human participants to learn associations between emotional stimuli (videos of faces or bodies) and non-emotional stimuli (fractals). After successful learning, fMRI signals were recorded during the presentations of emotional stimuli and emotion-associated fractals. We tested whether emotions could be decoded from fMRI signals evoked by the fractal stimuli using a classifier trained on the responses to the emotional stimuli (and vice versa). This was implemented as a whole-brain searchlight, multivoxel activation pattern analysis, which revealed successful emotion decoding in four brain regions: posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), precuneus, MPFC, and angular gyrus. The same analysis run only on responses to emotional stimuli revealed clusters in PCC, precuneus, and MPFC. Multidimensional scaling analysis of the activation patterns revealed clear clustering of responses by emotion across stimulus types. Our results suggest that PCC, precuneus, and MPFC contain representations of emotions that can be evoked by stimuli that carry emotional information themselves or by stimuli that evoke memories of emotional stimuli, while angular gyrus is more likely to take part in emotional memory retrieval.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) represents a common comorbidity in schizophrenia, but questions remain regarding how this comorbidity is related to symptomatology and self-perceptions. Forty-two patients with recent-onset schizophrenia were evaluated for SAD, and assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), as well as the Social Comparison Scale (SCS), which assessed how participants perceived themselves in relation with others (i.e., social rank). Eighteen patients met criteria for SAD (SZ+) while 24 patients did not (SZ-). Analysis of symptoms using a five-factor model of the PANSS revealed that the SZ- group had more severe symptoms than SZ+ on the Cognitive/Disorganization factor. Further analyses of individual symptoms demonstrated that the SZ- group was more affected in attention, abstract thinking, and cognitive disorganization (Cognitive/Disorganization symptoms), while the SZ+ group was more severely affected in anxiety, suspiciousness/persecution, and active social avoidance. Interestingly, severity of social anxiety symptom ratings correlated with certain PANSS symptoms only in the SZ- group. Perception of social rank, which was reduced in SZ+, displayed a trend level correlation with the positive symptoms in SZ-. Overall, the results suggest that SZ+ and SZ- may have different clinical profiles that could be important to consider when tailoring treatments for these patients.

Studies have shown that the scientific literature has overestimated the efficacy of antidepressants for depression, but other indications for these drugs have not been considered. To examine reporting biases in double-blind, placebo-controlled trials on the pharmacologic treatment of anxiety disorders and quantify the extent to which these biases inflate estimates of drug efficacy. We included reviews obtained from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for premarketing trials of 9 second-generation antidepressants in the treatment of anxiety disorders. A systematic search for matching publications (until December 19, 2012) was performed using PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Double data extraction was performed for the FDA reviews and the journal articles. The Hedges g value was calculated as the measure of effect size. Reporting bias was examined and classified as study publication bias, outcome reporting bias, or spin (abstract conclusion not consistent with published results on primary end point). Separate meta-analyses were conducted for the 2 sources, and the effect of publication status on the effect estimates was examined using meta-regression. The findings of 41 of the 57 trials (72%) were positive according to the FDA, but 43 of the 45 published article conclusions (96%) were positive (P < .001). Trials that the FDA determined as positive were 5 times more likely to be published in agreement with that determination compared with trials determined as not positive (risk ratio, 5.20; 95% CI, 1.87 to 14.45; P < .001). We found evidence for study publication bias (P < .001), outcome reporting bias (P = .02), and spin (P = .02). The pooled effect size based on the published literature (Hedges g, 0.38; 95% CI, 0.33 to 0.42; P < .001) was 15% higher than the effect size based on the FDA data (Hedges g, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.29 to 0.38; P < .001), but this difference was not statistically significant (β = 0.04; 95% CI, -0.02 to 0.10; P = .18). Various reporting biases were present for trials on the efficacy of FDA-approved second-generation antidepressants for anxiety disorders. Although these biases did not significantly inflate estimates of drug efficacy, reporting biases led to significant increases in the number of positive findings in the literature.

How do increasing temporal and spatial distance affect the emotions people feel and express in response to tragic events? Standard views suggest that emotional intensity should decrease but are silent on changes in emotional quality. Using a large Twitter data set, we identified temporal and spatial patterns in use of emotional and cognitive words in tweets about the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. Although use of sadness words decreased with time and spatial distance, use of anxiety words showed the opposite pattern and was associated with concurrent increases in language reflecting causal thinking. In a follow-up experiment, we found that thinking about abstract causes (as opposed to concrete details) of this event similarly evoked decreased sadness but increased anxiety, which was associated with perceptions that a similar event might occur in the future. These data challenge current theories of emotional reactivity and identify time, space, and abstract causal thinking as factors that elicit categorical shifts in emotional responses to tragedy.

Narrative therapy is a useful approach in the treatment of depression that allows that person to 're-author' his/her life stories by focusing on positive interpretations, and such focus on positive emotions is a crucial component of treatment for depression. This paper evaluates narrative therapy with an emotional approach (NTEA) as a therapeutic modality that could be used by nurses for persons with depression. A nurse-administered NTEA intervention for people with depression appears effective in increasing cognitive-emotional outcomes, such as hope, positive emotions and decreasing symptoms of depression. Thus, NTEA can be a useful nursing intervention strategy for people with depression. Narrative therapy, which allows a person to 're-author' his/her life stories by focusing on positive interpretations, and emotion-focused therapy, which enables the person to realize his/her emotions, are useful approaches in the treatment of depression. Narrative therapy with an emotional approach (NTEA) aims to create new positive life narratives that focus on alternative stories instead of negative stories. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of the NTEA programme on people with depression utilizing a quasi-experimental design. A total of 50 patients (experimental 24, control 26) participated in the study. The experimental group completed eight sessions of the NTEA programme. The effects of the programme were measured using a self-awareness scale, the Nowotny Hope Scale, the Positive Affect and Negative Affect Scale, and the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale. The two groups were homogeneous. There were significant differences in hope, positive and negative emotions, and depression between the experimental and control group. The results established that NTEA can be a useful nursing intervention strategy for people with depression by focusing on positive experiences and by helping depressed patients develop a positive identity through authoring affirmative life stories.

To assess demographic, medical, and psychological factors that are associated with fear of recurrence (FCR) in ovarian cancer patients. We searched PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane, CINAHL, and PsycINFO. For PubMed, a search using Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) was run, as well as a text-word search from 1990 to July of 2014. The search terms used consisted of ovarian terms, fear terms, and recurrence/progression themes. Title and abstract reviews were conducted by two independent reviewers to determine eligibility, and discrepancies were decided by a third reviewer. Full-text reviews of potentially eligible articles were conducted by the review team, which met regularly to ensure the reliability of eligibility ratings across all articles. A total of 15 articles met our inclusion criteria. Nine were quantitative studies that utilized a cross-sectional design, and the other six included three qualitative studies, two small intervention studies, and one study that utilized content analysis to explore written correspondence among ovarian cancer patients. FCR was reported as a significant concern for both older and younger women at both early and advanced stages. Women were distressed about recurrence at various times during their treatment and posttreatment. FCR was noted to be prevalent around cancer follow-up examinations. Many women reported not receiving adequate support for recurrence. FCR was also shown to be linked in some way to hopelessness, faith/spirituality, and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). FCR was also linked to patients' anxiety about death and dying and uncertainty about the future of their medical health. This review demonstrates that FCR is prevalent in the ovarian cancer population. Moreover, cancer recurrence fears are not adequately assessed or treated. More information is needed on the factors that may be related to women's fears about recurrence of ovarian cancer. In addition, a validated measure of FCR among ovarian cancer patients as well as a treatment intervention are needed.

Patients with schizophrenia show impairments in social cognitive abilities, such as recognizing facial emotions. However, the relation to symptoms remains unclear. The goal of this study was to explore whether facial emotion recognition and face identity recognition are associated with severity of symptoms and to which extent associations with symptoms differ for processing of social versus nonsocial information. Facial emotion recognition, face recognition, and abstract pattern recognition were evaluated in 98 patients with multiepisode schizophrenia. Severity of symptoms was measured using a five-factor model of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale. Results show that facial emotion recognition and, to a lesser extent, face recognition were predominantly associated with severity of disorganization symptoms. In contrast, recognition of nonsocial patterns was associated with negative symptoms, excitement, and emotional distress. Reaction time rather than accuracy of social cognition explained variance in symptomatology. These results lead to the conclusion that facial emotion processing in schizophrenia appears to be associated with severity of symptoms, especially disorganization.

ABSTRACT Appraisal of anger terms is based on past experience recollections, social norms, and gender roles. The objectives of this study were to find combinations of emotional components presented by a new composite variable that will exhibit differences between genders and differentiate between anger terms in Hebrew. The sample was comprised of forty students, Hebrew native speakers who participated in a web based study. Participants were asked to rate eight anger terms in Hebrew on a number of features that comprised five emotional components: subjective feelings states body reactions, expressions, action tendencies, and cognitive evaluations. A two-factor between-subjects multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was conducted. A simplified multivariate composite, defined as subjective experience minus regulation, explained 10% of the gender difference. Another simplified composite, which combines the additive effect of the subjective experience and the actions that accompany this emotional state, explained 14% of difference between the anger terms. The findings are discussed with respect to appraisal theory and social constructivist conceptualization.

In contrast to abstract trait words which describe people's general personality, gossip is about personal affairs of others. Although neural correlates underlying processing self-related trait words have been well documented, it remains poorly understood how the human brain processes gossip. In the present fMRI study, participants were instructed to rate their online emotional states upon hearing positive and negative gossip about celebrities, themselves, and their best friends. Explicit behavioral ratings suggested that participants were happier to hear positive gossip and more annoyed to hear negative gossip about themselves than about celebrities and best friends. At the neural level, dissociated neural networks were involved in processing the positive gossip about self and the negative gossip about celebrities. On the one hand, the superior medial prefrontal cortex responded not only to self-related gossip but also to moral transgressions, and neural activity in the orbital prefrontal cortex increased linearly with pleasure ratings on positive gossip about self. On the other hand, although participants' ratings did not show they were particularly happy on hearing negative gossip about celebrities, the significantly enhanced neural activity in the reward system suggested that they were indeed amused. Moreover, via enhanced functional connectivity, the prefrontal executive control network was involved in regulating the reward system by giving explicit pleasure ratings according to social norm compliance, rather than natural true feelings.

The aim of this study was to identify common factors relating to the academic success of medical students who were distinguished with honors at the Buenos Aires University. In 2011, 142 graduates were surveyed; the questionnaire included 59 questions on their sociodemographic environment, living conditions and social integration, motivation to study, learning capacity and health quality during their career. Compared to other students, these distinguished students more often lived in the city, far from their families; had been educated at private or universitary high schools, their economic needs were financed by their parents, who were on the whole professionals. Most of them were single and childless. The possibility of future employment oportunities (work) did not influence their choice of a medical career, academic success was important to them and they believed that success depended largely on personal effort; they knew how to handle anxiety, were sociable but independent and preferred solid experience to abstract conceptuality in order to obtain information. Our conclusion, within the current system of candidate selection, these results serve to calculate the covert self-selection mechanisms during the career, or in a more restrictive regime, to select those likely to reach academic success due to their privileged ambience. The analysis of demographic factors indicates some degree of inequality for socially disadvantaged students. Perhaps, a selection system based only on intellectual abilities would help identify and support the best candidates regardless of their social context.

The aesthetic experience, in particular the experience of beauty in the visual arts, should have neural correlates in the human brain. Neuroesthetics is principally implemented by functional studies in normal subjects, but the neuropsychology of the aesthetic experience, that is, the impact of brain damage on the appreciation of works of art, is a neglected field. Here, 16 mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease patients and 15 caregivers expressed their preference on 16 works of art (eight representational and eight abstract) during programmed visits to an art gallery. A week later, all subjects expressed a preference rate on reproductions of the same works presented in the gallery. Both patients and caregivers were consistent in assigning preference ratings, and in patients consistency was independent of the ability to recognize the works on which the preference rate had been given in an explicit memory task. Caregivers performed at ceiling in the memory task. Both patients and caregivers assigned higher preference ratings for representational than for abstract works and preference consistency was comparable in representational and abstract works. Furthermore, in the memory task, patients did not recognize better artworks they had assigned higher preference ratings to, suggesting that emotional stimuli (as presumably visual works of art are) cannot enhance declarative memory in this pathology. Our data, which were gathered in an ecological context and with real-world stimuli, confirm previous findings on the stability of aesthetic preference in patients with Alzheimer's disease and on the independence of aesthetic preference from cognitive abilities such as memory.

The objective of the current study is to examine the contribution of intellectual abilities, executive functions (EF), and facial emotion recognition to difficulties in Theory of Mind (ToM) abilities in children with a traumatic head injury. Israeli children with a traumatic head injury were compared with their non-injured counterparts. Each group included 18 children (12 males) ages 7-13. Measurements included reading the mind in the eyes, facial emotion recognition, reasoning the other's characteristics based on motive and outcome, Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices, similarities and digit span (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Revised 95 subscales), verbal fluency, and the Behaviour Rating Inventory of Executive Functions. Non-injured children performed significantly better on ToM, abstract reasoning, and EF measures compared with children with a traumatic head injury. However, differences in ToM abilities between the groups were no longer significant after controlling for abstract reasoning, working memory, verbal fluency, or facial emotion recognition. Impaired ToM recognition and reasoning abilities after a head injury may result from other cognitive impairments. In children with mild and moderate head injury, poorer performance on ToM tasks may reflect poorer abstract reasoning, a general tendency to concretize stimuli, working memory and verbal fluency deficits, and difficulties in facial emotion recognition, rather than deficits in the ability to understand the other's thoughts and emotions. ToM impairments may be secondary to a range of cognitive deficits in determining social outcomes in this population.

The Big Five personality dimension Openness/Intellect is the trait most closely associated with creativity and creative achievement. Little is known, however, regarding the discriminant validity of its two aspects-Openness to Experience (reflecting cognitive engagement with perception, fantasy, aesthetics, and emotions) and Intellect (reflecting cognitive engagement with abstract and semantic information, primarily through reasoning)-in relation to creativity. In four demographically diverse samples totaling 1,035 participants, we investigated the independent predictive validity of Openness and Intellect by assessing the relations among cognitive ability, divergent thinking, personality, and creative achievement across the arts and sciences. We confirmed the hypothesis that whereas Openness predicts creative achievement in the arts, Intellect predicts creative achievement in the sciences. Inclusion of performance measures of general cognitive ability and divergent thinking indicated that the relation of Intellect to scientific creativity may be due at least in part to these abilities. Lastly, we found that Extraversion additionally predicted creative achievement in the arts, independently of Openness. Results are discussed in the context of dual-process theory.

The degree of (over)generalization (to the self, over situations) is an important characteristic of depression and anxiety disorders. Little is known about cognitive mechanisms underlying this (over)generalization. In this context, the present study examined the effect of an abstract processing style (compared to a more concrete processing style) on generalization of angry faces to the self. An abstract processing style refers to thoughts about the meaning, causes and consequences of events or situations ('Why'-thinking). To test the impact of an abstract processing experimentally, images of angry faces were paired with the name of the participant and happy faces were paired with another person's name while participants adopted either an abstract ('Why') or a concrete ('How') processing style. A surprise recognition task, where participants were asked to indicate whether they had seen the faces before, served as a test of generalization of angry faces to the self. Results indicated that participants who adopted an abstract processing style showed more generalization of angry faces to the self and a trend towards more generalization of happy faces to the other person, relative to participants who adopted a concrete processing style. Our sample was a non-clinical student sample and thus conclusions about the generalizability to clinical samples should be done with caution. These results suggest that abstract thought may underlie the generalization of bad/failure/angry feelings toward the self ('Everyone is always angry with me') and of good feelings towards other people ('Everyone is always nicer to other people') that is often seen in depression and social anxiety disorder.

Political ideologies summarize dimensions of life that define how a person organizes their public and private behavior, including their attitudes associated with sex, family, education, and personal autonomy. Despite the abstract nature of such sensibilities, fundamental features of political ideology have been found to be deeply connected to basic biological mechanisms that may serve to defend against environmental challenges like contamination and physical threat. These results invite the provocative claim that neural responses to nonpolitical stimuli (like contaminated food or physical threats) should be highly predictive of abstract political opinions (like attitudes toward gun control and abortion). We applied a machine-learning method to fMRI data to test the hypotheses that brain responses to emotionally evocative images predict individual scores on a standard political ideology assay. Disgusting images, especially those related to animal-reminder disgust (e.g., mutilated body), generate neural responses that are highly predictive of political orientation even though these neural predictors do not agree with participants' conscious rating of the stimuli. Images from other affective categories do not support such predictions. Remarkably, brain responses to a single disgusting stimulus were sufficient to make accurate predictions about an individual subject's political ideology. These results provide strong support for the idea that fundamental neural processing differences that emerge under the challenge of emotionally evocative stimuli may serve to structure political beliefs in ways formerly unappreciated.

The relationship between approach and avoidance motivational orientations and valenced stimuli has previously been discussed in relation to physical distance. However, it has remained unclear whether approach and avoidance can actually change how people perceive the physical distance to valenced stimuli. Drawing on research on motivational orientation and valence as well as the motivated perception account, we predicted that valenced stimuli incompatible with motivational orientation would be perceived as closer than compatible stimuli because they motivate the goal of resolving the inconsistency arising from discrepant affective information. This prediction was supported in a series of 4 experiments. Findings were consistent across different manipulations of motivational orientation, including motor movements (Experiments 1 and 2) and cognitive procedures (Experiments 3 and 4), and across different types of stimuli, including abstract words (Experiments 1, 2, and 4) and photos of concrete objects (Experiment 3). Experiment 4 further investigated the mechanism behind the influence of incompatibility versus compatibility between motivational orientation and valence on distance perception. The findings showed that, relative to compatibility, incompatibility resulted in participants solving more anagrams, presumably because the goal-related motivational state gave rise to a general state of activation. Furthermore, perceptual estimates were correlated with the activity of the Behavioral Inhibition System (BIS) and the activity of the Behavioral Activation System (BAS) relative to the BIS, further suggesting that goal-related motivation may be associated with perception. Overall, the present research adds to a growing body of evidence suggesting that visual perception is shaped by motivational considerations.

Although the emotions of other people can often be perceived from overt reactions (e.g., facial or vocal expressions), they can also be inferred from situational information in the absence of observable expressions. How does the human brain make use of these diverse forms of evidence to generate a common representation of a target's emotional state? In the present research, we identify neural patterns that correspond to emotions inferred from contextual information and find that these patterns generalize across different cues from which an emotion can be attributed. Specifically, we use functional neuroimaging to measure neural responses to dynamic facial expressions with positive and negative valence and to short animations in which the valence of a character's emotion could be identified only from the situation. Using multivoxel pattern analysis, we test for regions that contain information about the target's emotional state, identifying representations specific to a single stimulus type and representations that generalize across stimulus types. In regions of medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), a classifier trained to discriminate emotional valence for one stimulus (e.g., animated situations) could successfully discriminate valence for the remaining stimulus (e.g., facial expressions), indicating a representation of valence that abstracts away from perceptual features and generalizes across different forms of evidence. Moreover, in a subregion of MPFC, this neural representation generalized to trials involving subjectively experienced emotional events, suggesting partial overlap in neural responses to attributed and experienced emotions. These data provide a step toward understanding how the brain transforms stimulus-bound inputs into abstract representations of emotion.

To assess existing reported human trials of Withania somnifera (WS; common name, ashwagandha) for the treatment of anxiety. Systematic review of the literature, with searches conducted in PubMed, SCOPUS, CINAHL, and Google Scholar by a medical librarian. Additionally, the reference lists of studies identified in these databases were searched by a research assistant, and queries were conducted in the AYUSH Research Portal. Search terms included "ashwagandha," "Withania somnifera," and terms related to anxiety and stress. Inclusion criteria were human randomized controlled trials with a treatment arm that included WS as a remedy for anxiety or stress. The study team members applied inclusion criteria while screening the records by abstract review. Treatment with any regimen of WS. Number and results of studies identified in the review. Sixty-two abstracts were screened; five human trials met inclusion criteria. Three studies compared several dosage levels of WS extract with placebos using versions of the Hamilton Anxiety Scale, with two demonstrating significant benefit of WS versus placebo, and the third demonstrating beneficial effects that approached but did not achieve significance (p=0.05). A fourth study compared naturopathic care with WS versus psychotherapy by using Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) scores as an outcome; BAI scores decreased by 56.5% in the WS group and decreased 30.5% for psychotherapy (p<0.0001). A fifth study measured changes in Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) scores in WS group versus placebo; there was a 44.0% reduction in PSS scores in the WS group and a 5.5% reduction in the placebo group (p<0.0001). All studies exhibited unclear or high risk of bias, and heterogenous design and reporting prevented the possibility of meta-analysis. All five studies concluded that WS intervention resulted in greater score improvements (significantly in most cases) than placebo in outcomes on anxiety or stress scales. Current evidence should be received with caution because of an assortment of study methods and cases of potential bias.

To explore the incidence of cognitive dysfunction and associated factors in 62 essential tremor (ET) cases, 60 normal controls and 61 Parkinson's disease (PD) cases. A total of 62 ET and 61 PD patients from September 2009 to September 2013 were recruited from our outpatient clinic. ET patients received the Tremor Rating Scale for Tremor-motor examination (items 1-15 of rating scale) while 61 PD patients were examined with the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-motor examination and a modified Hoehn and Yahr scale for staging disorder severity. All participants completed Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) Beijing version for measuring cognitive functions. And depression was evaluated by the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD). The serum levels of uric acid were tested. A MoCA score <26 (at least mildly cognitive) was observed in 14 (23.3%) normal controls, compared to 24 (38.7%) ET cases and 27 (44.3%) PD cases (P = 0.045 when comparing all 3 groups, and P = 0.532 when comparing ET and PD). The factor scores of visual space/execution were 4.1 ± 1.0, 3.8 ± 1.1 and 3.2 ± 1.6 in normal controls, ET and PD patients, the factor scores of naming 2.9 ± 0.4, 2.8 ± 0.6 and 2.3 ± 0.8 in control, ET and PD patients, the factor scores of delay memory 3.9 ± 0.9, 2.7 ± 1.3 and 2.5 ± 1.7 in control, ET and PD patients. Statistical differences existed in visual space/execution, naming and delay memory (P < 0.05) among 3 groups. Yet there were no statistical differences in attention, language, abstract and directional among 3 groups. Statistical differences existed in visual space/execution and naming between ET and PD patients (P < 0.05). PD cases had the lowest visual space/execution score, followed by ET (intermediate) and highest scores in controls (P < 0.05). In ET patients, cognitive scores were correlated with serum levels of uric acid, education, tremor Rating Scale for Tremor-motor subscale score and depression levels (r = 0.589, P = 0.000; r = 0.449, P = 0.010; r = 0.452, P = 0.009; r = 0.466, P = 0.025). In PD patients, cognitive scores correlated with serum levels of uric acid, education, score of UPDRS-III and depression levels (r = 0.694, P = 0.000; r = 0.614, P = 0.000; r = 0.604, P = 0.000; r = 0.376, P = 0.000). The incidence of cognition is higher in ET and PD. There were no significant inter-group differences for cognition frequency. The most frequently endorsed symptoms were poor visual spatial ability, execution disturbance and delayed recall disorders. Some connition scores in ET were intermediate between those of PD cases and normal controls. Thus a mild form of connition dysregulation may be present in ET. The degree of cognition symptoms is correlated with serum levels of uric acid, education and serious motor.

Abstract Objective: The objective of this study was to investigate the short-term treatment effects of atomoxetine on autism spectrum disorder (ASD) symptoms in children and adolescents with both ASD and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). A total of 97 patients 6-17 years of age, with ASD and ADHD, were treated with 1.2 mg/kg/day of atomoxetine during an 8 week double-blind placebo-controlled period. Here, we investigated effects on two parent-based secondary outcome measures, the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) and the Children's Social Behavior Questionnaire (CSBQ). After 8 weeks of double-blind treatment, atomoxetine administration was associated with significant treatment effects on the ABC subscales Hyperactivity, Inappropriate Speech, and Stereotypic Behavior, and on the CSBQ subscale Fear for Changes. Our study results indicate no beneficial effects of atomoxetine on social functioning. However, atomoxetine may ameliorate restricted and stereotyped behaviors and communication. This study has been registered in ClinicalTrials.gov ( www.clinicaltrials.gov ) under registration number NCT00380692.

Abstract Objective: To determine whether a 12-week home-based walking programme can decrease perceived stress and depressive symptoms in persons with a traumatic brain injury (TBI). Community- and home-based. Sixty-nine participants with a TBI. Comparative effectiveness cross-over design with random assignment to treatment sequence and blinded post-hoc assessment of outcome where participants completed a 12-week walking intervention and a nutrition education module. The walking intervention utilized pedometers to track the amount of steps each participant walked daily. With the assistance of an assigned coach, weekly goals were given with the intent of increasing the amount of walking that the participant was initially completing. The nutrition control group was created to offset the impact of the coaching calls. Measurement of perceived stress and depressive symptoms was completed through the use of the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) and Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CES-D). These measures were collected at three time points: baseline and following each 12-week intervention. RESULTS indicated that both perceived stress and depression symptoms significantly improved following the walking intervention. While limitations existed with the study, it is evident that walking can be used as an efficient and cost-effective tool to manage perceived stress and depressive symptoms in persons who have sustained a TBI.

Our emotions tend to be directed towards someone or something. Such emotional intentionality calls for the integration between two streams of information; abstract hedonic value and its associated concrete content. In a previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study we found that the combination of these two streams, as modeled by short emotional music excerpts and neutral film clips, was associated with synergistic activation in both temporal-limbic (TL) and ventral-lateral PFC (vLPFC) regions. This additive effect implies the integration of domain-specific 'affective' and 'cognitive' processes. Yet, the low temporal resolution of the fMRI limits the characterization of such cross-domain integration. To this end, we complemented the fMRI data with intracranial electroencephalogram (iEEG) recordings from twelve patients with intractable epilepsy. As expected, the additive fMRI activation in the amygdala and vLPFC was associated with distinct spatio-temporal iEEG patterns among electrodes situated within the vicinity of the fMRI activation foci. On the one hand, TL channels exhibited a transient (0-500 msec) increase in gamma power (61-69 Hz), possibly reflecting initial relevance detection or hedonic value tagging. On the other hand, vLPFC channels showed sustained (1-12 sec) suppression of low frequency power (2.3-24 Hz), possibly mediating changes in gating, enabling an on-going readiness for content-based processing of emotionally tagged signals. Moreover, an additive effect in delta-gamma phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) was found among the TL channels, possibly reflecting the integration between distinct domain specific processes. Together, this study provides a multi-faceted neurophysiological signature for computations that possibly underlie emotional intentionality in humans.

We assessed the performance of patients with a diagnosis of Alzheimer׳s disease (AD) and of the semantic variant of primary progressive aphasia (sv-PPA) in a series of tasks involving both abstract and concrete stimuli, which were controlled for most of the variables that have been shown to affect performance on lexical-semantic tasks. Our aims were to compare the patients׳ performance on abstract and concrete stimuli and to assess category-effects within the abstract and concrete domains. The results showed: (i) a better performance on abstract than concrete concepts in sv-PPA patients. (ii) Category-related effects in the abstract domain, with emotion concepts being preserved in AD and social relations being selectively impaired in sv-PPA. In addition, a living-non living dissociation may be (infrequently) observed in individual AD patients after controlling for an extensive set of potential confounds. Thus, differences between and within the concrete or abstract domain may be present in patients with semantic memory disorders, mirroring the different brain regions involved by the different pathologies.

Autism spectrum conditions (ASC) are characterised by deficits in understanding and expressing emotions and are frequently accompanied by alexithymia, a difficulty in understanding and expressing emotion words. Words are differentially represented in the brain according to their semantic category and these difficulties in ASC predict reduced activation to emotion-related words in limbic structures crucial for affective processing. Semantic theories view 'emotion actions' as critical for learning the semantic relationship between a word and the emotion it describes, such that emotion words typically activate the cortical motor systems involved in expressing emotion actions such as facial expressions. As ASC are also characterised by motor deficits and atypical brain structure and function in these regions, motor structures would also be expected to show reduced activation during emotion-semantic processing. Here we used event-related fMRI to compare passive processing of emotion words in comparison to abstract verbs and animal names in typically-developing controls and individuals with ASC. Relatively reduced brain activation in ASC for emotion words, but not matched control words, was found in motor areas and cingulate cortex specifically. The degree of activation evoked by emotion words in the motor system was also associated with the extent of autistic traits as revealed by the Autism Spectrum Quotient. We suggest that hypoactivation of motor and limbic regions for emotion word processing may underlie difficulties in processing emotional language in ASC. The role that sensorimotor systems and their connections might play in the affective and social-communication difficulties in ASC is discussed.

Abstract An educational intervention (EI) is useful in preparing patients for orthopaedic surgery. This quasi-experimental study examined the effect of a brief EI on pain level, anxiety, pain inference on sleep, and sleep satisfaction among Chinese patients undergoing emergency orthopaedic surgery. The intervention group received usual care plus 20-minute EI which comprised a combination of patient education and a breathing relaxation exercise (BRE) whereas the control group received usual care only. The outcomes were evaluated before the EI and at days 2, 4 and 7 post-surgery. One hundred and fifty-two participants completed the study. The intervention group had significantly lower pain levels (Brief pain inventory), anxiety levels (The Chinese state Anxiety scale), and lower pain inference scores on mood and better sleep satisfaction. Therefore, a brief EI with a BRE is a feasible and useful intervention that can improve post-operative outcomes in emergency orthopaedic surgery.

Recent accounts of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) suggest that the encoding of an episode within a fearful context generates different implicit and explicit memory representations. Whilst implicit memory traces include the associated emotional states, explicit traces include a recoding into an abstract or gist-based structural context of the episode. Theoretically, the long-term preservation of implicit memory traces may facilitate the often untreatable memory intrusions in PTSD. Here, we tracked in two experiments how implicit and explicit memory traces for fearful episodes dissociate and evolve over time. Subjects (N=86) were presented with semantically-related word-lists in a contextual fear paradigm and tested for explicit memories either immediately (i.e., 30 min) or after a delay (i.e., 1 or 2 weeks) with a verbal recognition task. Skin Conductance Response (SCR) was used to assess implicit memory responses. Subjects showed high memory accuracy for words when tested immediately after encoding. At test, SCR was higher during the presentation of verbatim but not gist-based words encoded in a fearful context, and remained unchanged after 2 weeks, despite subjects being unaware of words' encoding context. We found no clear evidence of accurate explicit memory traces for the fearful or neutral contexts of words presented during encoding, either 30 min or 2 weeks afterwards. These findings indicate that the implicit, but not the explicit, memory trace of a fearful context of an episode can be detected at long-term through SCR and is dissociated from the gist-based memory. They may have implicationstowards the understanding of how the processing of fearful memoriescould lead to PTSD.

Abstract Despite change toward more individualized support, group homes are likely to remain for people with severe intellectual disability. As such, the search continues for ways to determine and maintain the quality of these settings. This article draws on in-depth qualitative analysis of participant observations conducted over 9-12 months in seven group homes for 21 people with a severe and profound level of intellectual disability. It explores the conceptualization of good outcomes and support for this group in terms of their quality of life and staff practices. The qualitative indicators of good outcomes for this group using quality of life domains can be used by auditors, community visitors, funders, advocates, or family members to guide observation and judgements about group homes.

ABSTRACT. among young people. This study examined how positive and negative affect differ before marijuana use compared with other times. Forty medical outpatients ages 15-24 years who used marijuana recreationally at least twice a week (M = 18.7 years; 58% female) reported momentary positive affect, negative affect, companionship, perceived ease of obtaining marijuana, and marijuana use several times a day for 2 weeks on a handheld computer. Mean momentary positive affect and negative affect scores in the 24 hours leading up to a marijuana use event (n = 294) were compared with affect scores in times further from subsequent use. Generalized estimating equation models considered as potential moderators perceived ease of obtaining marijuana and being with friends. Positive affect did not differ in the 24 hours before marijuana use compared with times further before use. Negative affect was significantly higher before marijuana use compared with other times. Being with friends and perceived easy marijuana availability did not moderate the associations. The association between negative affect and subsequent marijuana use was attenuated when negative affect was examined only for the moment just before use, suggesting that use may follow a period of increased negative affect. The findings support an affect regulation model for marijuana use among frequently using youth. Specifically, these youth may use marijuana to manage increased negative affect.

This is a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating the effectiveness of collaborative care compared to Primary Care Physician's (PCP's) usual care in the treatment of depression, focusing on European countries. A systematic review of English and non-English articles, from inception to March 2014, was performed using database PubMed, British Nursing Index and Archive, Ovid Medline (R), PsychINFO, Books@Ovid, PsycARTICLES Full Text, EMBASE Classic+Embase, DARE (Database of Abstract of Reviews of Effectiveness) and the Cochrane Library electronic database. Search term included depression, collaborative care, physician family and allied health professional. RCTs comparing collaborative care to usual care for depression in primary care were included. Titles and abstracts were independently examined by two reviewers, who extracted from the included trials information on participants' characteristics, type of intervention, features of collaborative care and type of outcome measure. The 17 papers included, regarding 15 RCTs, involved 3240 participants. Primary analyses showed that collaborative care models were associated with greater improvement in depression outcomes in the short term, within 3 months (standardized mean difference (SMD) -0.19, 95% CI=-0.33; -0.05; p=0.006), medium term, between 4 and 11 months (SMD -0.24, 95% CI=-0.39; -0.09; p=0.001) and medium-long term, from 12 months and over (SMD -0.21, 95% CI=-0.37; -0.04; p=0.01), compared to usual care. The present review, specifically focusing on European countries, shows that collaborative care is more effective than treatment as usual in improving depression outcomes.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 15(1) of Emotion (see record 2015-05076-005). In the article, there was an error in the abstract. The name of author Donnellan was misspelled as Donellan.] [Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 15(1) of Emotion (see record 2015-05076-004). In the article, the wrong supplemental file was originally posted. The correct file has now been posted.] As Tversky and Kahneman (1971) noted, effect sizes in smaller samples are inherently unstable. Donnellan [corrected] et al. (2014) in a large sample show that the relation between trait loneliness and warmth extraction through bathing activities is much smaller than in our initial smaller samples. We report further replications of our original findings in samples from India, Israel, and North America, again showing significant correlations between loneliness and physical warmth extraction from bathing and showering; the overall effect being reliable across all three samples, although, consistent with Donnellan [corrected] et al.'s conclusions, smaller than in our original studies. We also respond to criticisms of the original data analyses, noting that removal of the problematic 'bathing frequency' item from the warmth index did not substantially change the results and thus our conclusions from them. We also note that in their 2 studies in which Donnellan [corrected] et al. attempted to most closely follow our original procedure, they did replicate our original results, but not in the other 7 studies in which considerable procedural changes were made. As our new replications reveal variability in bathing and showering preferences and habits around the world, we recommend the inclusion of a wider sample of cultures beyond North American in future research. This research should also focus not only on the narrower question of how loneliness relates to bathing activities but on the broader relation between feelings of social coldness (e.g., after rejection or exclusion) and the seeking of physical warmth (e.g., warm food and drink, thermostat settings).

Abstract Alexithymia refers to difficulties with identifying, describing, and regulating one's own emotions. This trait dimension has been linked to risky or harmful use of alcohol and illicit drugs; however, the most widely used psychoactive drug in the world, caffeine, has not been examined previously in relation to alexithymia. The present study assessed 106 male and female university students aged 18-30 years on their caffeine use in relation to several traits, including alexithymia. The 18 participants defined as alexithymic based on their Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) scores reported consuming nearly twice as much caffeine per day as did non-alexithymic or borderline alexithymic participants. They also scored significantly higher than controls on indices of frontal lobe dysfunction as well as anxiety symptoms and sensitivity to punishment. In a hierarchical linear regression model, sensitivity to punishment negatively predicted daily caffeine intake, suggesting caffeine avoidance by trait-anxious individuals. Surprisingly, however, TAS-20 alexithymia scores positively predicted caffeine consumption. Possible reasons for the positive relationship between caffeine use and alexithymia are discussed, concluding that this outcome is tentatively consistent with the hypo-arousal model of alexithymia.

Abstract A synthetic cathinone called 4-methylethcathinone (4-MEC) emerged online in 2010, and was cyber-marketed to be a replacement for mephedrone. The study aimed to present user experiences of 4-MEC as reported on the Internet, with a focus on user profiles, sourcing and product characteristics, routes of administration, dosage, positive and undesirable effects, and comparisons to mephedrone. Twenty-three individual, anonymous trip reports of the sole use of 4-MEC, and 112 screenshots of general 4-MEC user discussion boards, were taken from a purposeful sample of public drug-related sites. A content textual analysis was conducted on extracted qualitative information and produced 41 categories compiled into five general themes: "Type of 4-MEC user"; "Sourcing, informed decision making, product characteristics, and quality assurance"; "Routes of administration, gauging of dosage, and consumption of other drugs"; "Time course effects and outcomes"; and "Comparisons with mephedrone." 4-MEC is sold as white beads, crystalline shards, or green balls. User motives centered on curiosity, pricing, and ease of web sourcing. Oral, nasal, injecting, eyeball, and rectal routes of administration were described. Testing for purity, "allergy testing," and gauging of dosage were common. Users described euphoric but short-lived effects, with little comedown. Continued research is vital to inform harm reduction.

This study investigated the role of verbal ability and fluid intelligence on children's emotion understanding, testing the hypothesis that fluid intelligence predicts the development of emotion comprehension over and above age and verbal ability. One hundred and two children (48 girls) aged 3.6-6 years completed the Test of Emotion Comprehension (TEC) that comprised external and mental components, the Coloured Progressive Matrices and the Test for Reception of Grammar. Regression analysis showed that fluid intelligence was not equally related to the external and mental components of the TEC (Pons & Harris, 2000). Specifically, the results indicated that the external component was related to age and verbal ability only, whereas recognition of mental emotional patterns required abstract reasoning skills more than age and verbal ability. It is concluded that the development of fluid intelligence has a significant role in the development of mental component of emotion comprehension.

Abstract The Internet-based psychotherapeutic intervention Onco-STEP for adolescent and young adult (AYA)-aged survivors of pediatric cancer was developed, implemented, and participants' satisfaction was evaluated by use of questionnaires. The intervention consisted of two modules: "Looking Back," aimed to reduce posttraumatic stress symptoms, and "Looking Ahead," supported coping with cancer-related fears of relapse and progression. The writing program was fully completed by 20 participants (Mage=27.3±4.8 years at study; 70% female). The majority was satisfied and perceived the treatment components as helpful. Results demonstrate that an Internet-based psychotherapeutic intervention for AYA-aged survivors of pediatric cancer is feasible and accepted by the target population.

Psychological detachment from work is important for facilitating recovery. This can be threatened by rumination, or thinking about the day's stressors. Rumination may lead to distress, fatigue and extended activation of stress-related systems, but findings are not unequivocal. Level of construal (abstract or concrete) and type of mentation (imagery or verbal thought) used during stressor-focused rumination may shape physiological and affective responses and impact recovery. This study tested whether blood pressure (BP) and anxiety responses to stressor-focused rumination differ by mentation type and construal level. Healthy undergraduates (n = 136) performed a speech stressor and then completed a rumination task in one of four randomly assigned conditions: concrete imagery, abstract imagery, concrete verbal thought or abstract verbal thought. Anxiety and continuous BP were assessed. Concrete rumination led to greater BP, whereas rumination with abstract construals led to lower BP. Furthermore, participants in the abstract conditions had greater increases in anxiety following stressor-focused rumination than in the concrete conditions. Results suggest that the immediate physiological and psychological consequences of stressor-focused rumination depend upon mode of thought.

The natural history of sex-linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP) has been well documented. However, its nonmotor features have not yet been fully described. We reviewed the available literature on the nonmotor features in XDP. We found five articles involving 79 XDP patients, three of which were on cognition and two on mood (anxiety and depression). There were two case reports showing executive dysfunction. The other paper showed impairments in abstract thinking and motor programming. Two articles were on mood (anxiety and depression). The prevalence of anxiety symptoms was 16.7% and 54.8-92.9% had depressive symptoms. The identification of these nonmotor features should lead to early and appropriate management.

It has been proposed that much of conceptual knowledge is acquired through situated conceptualization, such that both external (e.g., agents, objects, events) and internal (e.g., emotions, introspections) environments are considered important (Barsalou, 2003). To evaluate this proposal, we characterized two dimensions by which situated conceptualization may be measured and which should have different relevance for abstract and concrete concepts; namely, emotional experience (i.e., the ease with which words evoke emotional experience; Newcombe, Campbell, Siakaluk, & Pexman, 2012) and context availability (i.e., the ease with which words evoke contexts in which their referents may appear; Schwanenflugel & Shoben, 1983). We examined the effects of these two dimensions on abstract and concrete word processing in verbal semantic categorization (VSCT) and naming tasks. In the VSCT, emotional experience facilitated processing of abstract words but inhibited processing of concrete words, whereas context availability facilitated processing of both types of words. In the naming task in which abstract words and concrete words were not blocked by emotional experience, context availability facilitated responding to only the abstract words. In the naming task in which abstract words and concrete words were blocked by emotional experience, emotional experience facilitated responding to only the abstract words, whereas context availability facilitated responding to only the concrete words. These results were observed even with several lexical (e.g., frequency, age of acquisition) and semantic (e.g., concreteness, arousal, valence) variables included in the analyses. As such, the present research suggests that emotional experience and context availability tap into different aspects of situated conceptualization and make unique contributions to the representation and processing of abstract and concrete concepts.

Consolation is grief's traditional amelioration, but contemporary bereavement theory lacks a conceptual framework to include it. The article begins to develop that framework. The article argues that grief is inter-subjective, even at the biological level. Consolation and grief happen in the same inter-subjective space. Material from the histories of several religions sets the article in a cross-cultural and historical environment. The article examines consolation in interpersonal relationships, and then moves to consolation in cultural/religious resources that range from the literal image of God as an idealized parent to the abstract architecture of Brahm's Requiem. The most common consolation in the histories of religions comes within continuing bonds that are accessed in a wide variety of beliefs, rituals, and devotional objects. The article closes by briefly drawing the connection between consolation and faith.

The capacity to repair sad mood through the deliberate recall of happy memories has been found to be impaired in dysphoric individuals. Rumination, or adopting an abstract processing mode, has been proposed as a possible mechanism underpinning this effect. In low and high dysphoric participants, we examined the relative consequences of adopting an abstract or concrete processing mode during happy memory recall or engaging in distraction for (1) mood repair and (2) cognitive content. Recalling a happy memory in either an abstract or concrete way resulted in greater happiness than distraction. Engaging in abstract recall of a happy memory resulted in high dysphoric participants generating negative evaluations and negative generalisations. These findings raise the interesting possibility that abstract processing of positive memories has the potential to generate negative cognition.

The fast and reliable neuronal and behavioral responses to negative affective stimuli have been suggested to be at least partly based on the processing of simple geometric configurations within complex visual stimuli. In this context, one line of experimental and neuroimaging evidence suggests that simple V-shaped stimuli result in patterns of neuronal activation and behavioral responses akin to pictures of negative facial expressions. The present study investigated the effects of circles as well as upward and downward pointing triangles in healthy young adults on three peripheral physiological markers - skin conductance response (SCR), facial EMG, and startle reflex - in order to further narrow the gap between neuroimaging findings and behavioral data regarding the impact of geometric shapes. We found significant effects of geometric forms on the startle reflex (p≤0.001, η(2)=0.080) and the SCR (p=0.029, η(2)=0.078), but not on facial EMG. Furthermore, subjective valence and arousal ratings of geometric stimuli differed significantly, with downward pointing triangles being perceived as less pleasant and more arousing. In sum, our findings provide further evidence that simple geometric shapes convey emotional meaning. Particularly, the observed changes in SCR and startle response underscore the notion that geometric shapes lead to preparatory changes in physiological activation patterns, which are essential for facilitation of appropriate behavioral responses. However, the smaller effect sizes compared to more realistic affective pictures also highlight the organisms' ability to differentiate between real impending danger and abstract cues in order to avoid unnecessary excessive responses.

Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that has stigmatised people affected since ancient times until now. This has resulted in difficulties in the lives of those affected. This literature review was conducted to understand the concept, causes, and determinants of stigma in leprosy. Electronic searches were undertaken using PubMed (Medline), CINAHL and PsycInfo databases. The internet was searched through Google Scholar for papers not found in these databases. The main inclusion criteria were papers related to stigma or leprosy written in Thai or English. After searching the databases, 84 papers were identified, 3 were removed because of duplication and parallel publication, and 20 were removed on abstract screening. After reading 61 full papers, 7 were excluded. Finally, 54 were included in this review. It was found that the concept of stigma involves not only characteristics considered undesirable, but also the social context of the individual or group. Reported causes and determinants of stigma related to leprosy are the external manifestations of the disease, cultural and religious beliefs, fear of transmission, association with people considered inferior and public health-related interventions. Stigma is a complex phenomenon that has multiple causes, often linked to the cultural context in which it occurs. Despite this, many similarities were found in leprosy-related stigma across countries and cultures, which would facilitate the development of interventions.

In this study, we examined the effects of emotional experience, a relatively new dimension of emotional knowledge that gauges the ease with which words evoke emotional experience, on abstract word processing in the Stroop task. In order to test the context-dependency of these effects, we accentuated the saliency of this dimension in Experiment 1A by blocking the stimuli such that one block consisted of the stimuli with the highest emotional experience ratings and the other block consisted of the stimuli with the lowest emotional experience ratings. We attenuated the saliency of this dimension in Experiment 1B by intermixing the stimuli. We observed slower color naming performance for words with higher emotional experience ratings only in Experiment 1A, suggesting that the dimension of emotional experience is an aspect of semantic representation for abstract words but that its influence can be modulated by context. We interpret these results more generally using Vigliocco, Meteyard, Andrews, and Kousta's (2009) framework of semantic representation, and more specifically using Cohen, Dunbar, and McClelland's (1990) model of Stroop task performance.

Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a dynamically informed and present-focused psychotherapy originally conceived for patients with unipolar depression and subsequently modified for other disorders, including postpartum depression (PPD). The aim of this paper is to review the evidence on the efficacy of IPT for PPD. We conducted a systematic review of studies published between 1995 and April 2013 assessing the efficacy of IPT for PPD using PubMed and PsycINFO. We included the following: (i) articles that presented a combination of at least two of the established terms in the abstract, namely, interpersonal [all fields] and ("psychotherapy" [MeSH terms] or psychotherapy [all fields]) and (perinatal [all fields] or postpartum [all fields]) and ("depressive disorder" [MeSH terms] or ("depressive" [all fields] and "disorder" [all fields]) or depressive disorder [all fields] or "depression" [all fields] or depression [MeSH terms]); (ii) manuscripts in English; (iii) original articles; and (iv) prospective or retrospective observational studies (analytical or descriptive), experimental, or quasi-experimental. Exclusion criteria were as follows: (i) other study designs, such as case reports, case series, and reviews; (ii) non-original studies including editorials, book reviews, and letters to the editor; and (iii) studies not specifically designed and focused on IPT. We identified 11 clinical primary trials assessing the efficacy of IPT for PPD, including 3 trials with group interventions (G-IPT) and one that required the presence of the partner (PA-IPT). We also identified six studies interpersonal-psychotherapy-oriented preventive interventions for use in pregnancy. IPT studies showed overall clinical improvement in the most commonly used depression measures in postpartum depressed women (EPDS, HDRS, BDI) and often-full recovery in several cases of treated patients. Evidence from clinical trials indicates that, when administered in monotherapy (or in combination with antidepressants), IPT may shorten the time to recovery from PPD and prolong the time spent in clinical remission.

It remains unclear how the brain represents external objective sensory events alongside our internal subjective impressions of them--affect. Representational mapping of population activity evoked by complex scenes and basic tastes in humans revealed a neural code supporting a continuous axis of pleasant-to-unpleasant valence. This valence code was distinct from low-level physical and high-level object properties. Although ventral temporal and anterior insular cortices supported valence codes specific to vision and taste, both the medial and lateral orbitofrontal cortices (OFC) maintained a valence code independent of sensory origin. Furthermore, only the OFC code could classify experienced affect across participants. The entire valence spectrum was represented as a collective pattern in regional neural activity as sensory-specific and abstract codes, whereby the subjective quality of affect can be objectively quantified across stimuli, modalities and people.

Recent behavioral data suggest that the concreteness of positive words modulates subsequent cognitive processing; however, the underlying physiological processes of this influence are not well understood. To explore this process, positive-abstract words or positive-concrete words were used as primes when participants performed a lexical decision task during the measurement of event-related potentials (ERPs). The behavioral data revealed a significant affective priming effect (i.e., incongruent>congruent) only for abstract word pairs. The N400 amplitude was larger for affectively incongruent pairs compared to affectively congruent pairs, independent of the prime concreteness. The amplitude of the late positive component (LPC) was modulated by prime concreteness. The processing of positive-abstract targets was facilitated by previous exposure to a congruent prime, as reflected by the reduced LPC, which has been thought to reflect attentional and memory processes. However, no differences in the LPC amplitude were found between congruent and incongruent-concrete pairs. These findings suggest that the influence of the concreteness of positive words mainly occurs during the decision-making processing and memory-related stages.

The human voice carries speech as well as important nonlinguistic signals that influence our social interactions. Among these cues that impact our behavior and communication with other people is the perceived emotional state of the speaker. A theoretical framework for the neural processing stages of emotional prosody has suggested that auditory emotion is perceived in multiple steps (Schirmer and Kotz, 2006) involving low-level auditory analysis and integration of the acoustic information followed by higher-level cognition. Empirical evidence for this multistep processing chain, however, is still sparse. We examined this question using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a continuous carry-over design (Aguirre, 2007) to measure brain activity while volunteers listened to non-speech-affective vocalizations morphed on a continuum between anger and fear. Analyses dissociated neuronal adaptation effects induced by similarity in perceived emotional content between consecutive stimuli from those induced by their acoustic similarity. We found that bilateral voice-sensitive auditory regions as well as right amygdala coded the physical difference between consecutive stimuli. In contrast, activity in bilateral anterior insulae, medial superior frontal cortex, precuneus, and subcortical regions such as bilateral hippocampi depended predominantly on the perceptual difference between morphs. Our results suggest that the processing of vocal affect recognition is a multistep process involving largely distinct neural networks. Amygdala and auditory areas predominantly code emotion-related acoustic information while more anterior insular and prefrontal regions respond to the abstract, cognitive representation of vocal affect.

Abstract Objective: To evaluate associations between early pregnancy 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25[OH]D) concentrations and antepartum depression and anxiety symptoms and potential modifiers thereof. In a pregnancy cohort (N=498), we examined cross-sectional associations of early pregnancy (mean=15.4 weeks gestation) serum 25[OH]D concentrations and depression and anxiety symptoms. Symptoms were measured using Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scales (DASS-21) and Patient Health Questionnaire Depression Module (PHQ-9) instruments. Regression models were fit and effect modification by prepregnancy body mass index and leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) were assessed using interaction terms and stratified analyses. Mean 25[OH]D concentration was 34.4 ng/mL. Approximately 12% had "moderate" anxiety (score ≥ 10) and depression (score ≥ 10) symptoms by DASS-21 Anxiety and PHQ-9 instruments, respectively. A 1 ng/mL lower 25[OH]D was associated with 0.043 and 0.040 higher DASS-21 Anxiety and PHQ-9 Scores (p-values=0.052 and 0.029, respectively). Participants in the lowest quartile of 25[OH]D (<28.9 ng/mL) had 1.11 higher PHQ-9 scores than those in the highest quartile (≥ 39.5 ng/mL, p<0.05). However, associations were attenuated and statistically insignificant in fully adjusted models. Inverse associations of 25[OH]D with depression symptoms were significant among participants who reported no LTPA, but not among women who reported any LTPA (interaction p=0.018). Our study provides modest evidence for inverse cross-sectional associations of early pregnancy maternal vitamin D concentrations with antepartum depression symptoms. We also observed that these associations may be modified by physical activity.

In the healthy state, both circadian rhythm and mood are stable against perturbations, yet they are capable of adjusting to altered internal cues or ongoing changes in external conditions. The dual demands of stability and flexibility are met by the collective properties of complex neural networks. Disruption of this balance underlies both circadian rhythm abnormality and mood disorders. However, we do not fully understand the network properties that govern the crosstalk between the circadian system and mood regulation. This puzzle reflects a challenge at the center of neurobiology, and its solution requires the successful integration of existing data across all levels of neural organization, from molecules, cells, circuits, network dynamics, to integrated mental function. This essay discusses several open questions confronting the cross-level synthesis, and proposes that circadian regulation, and its role in mood, stands as a uniquely tractable system to study the causal mechanisms of neural adaptation. Also watch the Video Abstract. Editor's suggested further reading in BioEssays Major depressive disorder: A loss of circadian synchrony? Abstract.

Adaptive anxiety relies on a balance between the generalization of fear acquisition and fear extinction. Research on fear (extinction) generalization has focused mostly on perceptual similarity, thereby ignoring the importance of conceptual stimulus relations in humans. The present study used a laboratory procedure to create de novo conceptual categories of arbitrary stimuli and investigated fear and extinction generalization among these stimuli. A matching-to-sample task produced two four-member categories of abstract figures. Next, a member from one category was coupled with an aversive electrical stimulation, while a member from the other category was presented alone. As expected, conditioned fear responses generalized to the other members of the first category (skin conductance and online shock-expectancy). Subsequent extinction of the conditioned member also generalized to the other members. However, extinguishing a non-conditioned member failed to reduce fear of the conditioned member itself. We conclude that fears generalize readily across conceptually related stimuli, but that the degree of extinction generalization depends on the stimulus subjected to extinction.

Patients treated in a neuroscience intensive care unit (NICU) are often viewed as too sick to tolerate physical activity. In this study, mobility status in NICU was assessed, and factors and outcomes associated with mobility were examined. Using a prospective design, daily mobility status, medical history, demographics, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III score, and clinical outcomes were collected by medical records and database review. Depression, anxiety, and hostility were assessed before NICU discharge. Analyses included comparative statistics and multivariable modeling. In 228 unique patients, median (minimum, maximum) age was 64.0 (20, 95) years, 66.4% were Caucasian, and 53.6% were men. Of 246 admissions, median NICU stay was 4 (1, 61) days; APACHE III score was 56 (16, 145). Turning, range of motion, and head of bed of >30° were uniformly applied (n = 241), but 94 patients (39%) never progressed; 94 (39%) progressed to head of bed of >45° or dangling legs, 29 (12%) progressed to standing or pivoting to chair, and 24 (10%) progressed to walking. Female gender (p = .019), mechanical ventilation (p < .001), higher APACHE score (p = .004), and 30-day mortality (p = .001) were associated with less mobility. In multivariable modeling, greater mobility was associated with longer unit stay (p < .001) and discharge to home (p < .001). Psychological profile characteristics were not associated with mobility level. Nearly 40% of patients never progressed beyond bed movement, and only 10% walked. Although limited mobility progression was not associated with many patient factors, it was associated with poorer clinical outcomes. Implementation and evaluation of a progressive mobility protocol are needed in NICU patients. For more insights from the authors, see Supplemental Digital Content 1, at http://link.lww.com/JNN/A10.

Abstract The present study investigated the effect of opponent gender on the game experience of female players. Concretely, it looked into skill perception and player emotions of women in same gender and cross-gender game competition. We set up a 2×2×2 (male vs. female opponent×low vs. high competitive women×lost vs. won game) experimental design in which women were instructed to play against a proclaimed male and female competitor. Unknowingly, however, participants played against an AI, which was configured to produce a winning and a losing condition for each opponent by manipulating difficulty. Results indicated that opponent gender only had an effect on perceived stress, which was higher with male opponents. Moreover, players evaluated their own gaming skills as lower and the skills of presumed male opponents as higher when they thought they were playing against men. Importantly, our results also showed that the above described pattern for self-perceived skills and perceived opponent skills was modulated by trait competitiveness with a larger effect size for low competitive women. Overall, this study illustrates that gender dynamics affect the play experience of women in cross-gender gaming competition. Implications and suggestions for future research are discussed.

The phenomenon that concrete words are easier to process than abstract words is referred to as the word concreteness effect. Previous research has investigated influences of semantic context and word emotionality on concreteness effects. It is still unclear whether word concreteness effects might be influenced by emotional context for individuals with different cognitive styles. The present study showed how affective congruency between picture context and word target impacts concreteness effects in the word processing for field-independent and field-dependent individuals using event-related potential measures. The participants evaluated pleasantness of the target word following the presentation of an affective picture. Concrete words were associated with a larger N400 and a smaller late positive component (LPC) than abstract words. Moreover, the LPC concreteness effect occurred only in the affectively incongruent context for field-dependent participants. These findings suggest that emotional context and concreteness modulate the N400 independently, but the LPC concreteness effect is influenced by emotional context and cognitive style.

The prevalence of depression is high in cardiac patients. Depression has a significant impact on quality of life, adherence to therapy, and an independent effect on prognosis. The Cardiac Depression Scale (CDS) is the only instrument designed to measure depression in cardiac patients. This study systematically reviewed the psychometric properties of the CDS for screening of depression in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). A search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL Plus, PsycINFO, Scopus and Web of Science was performed using the search term Cardiac Depression Scale in the title or abstract. Eligible studies were those that assessed reliability, validity or diagnostic accuracy of the CDS in patients with CHD. Methodological quality was assessed using the QUADAS-2 and STARD. Most studies assessed the reliability and validity of the CDS: three studies assessed construct validity using factor analysis; six studies assessed the validity of the CDS with other measures of depression; and four studies assessed its diagnostic accuracy. However, some studies reported overlapping samples, which reduces confidence in their evaluation. This review finds the CDS to be a psychometrically sound measurement instrument for identifying mild, moderate and severe depression in cardiac populations.

Abstract Exposure to stress is highly correlated with the emergence of mood-related illnesses. Because major depressive disorder often emerges in adolescence, we assessed the effects of social defeat stress on responses to depressive-like behaviors in juvenile mice. To do this, postnatal day (PD) 35 male c57BL/6 mice were exposed to 10 days of social defeat stress (PD35-44), while control mice were handled daily. Twenty-four hours after the last episode of defeat (PD45), separate groups of mice were tested in the social interaction, forced swimming, sucrose preference, and elevated plus-maze behavioral assays (n = 7-12 per group). Also, we examined body weight gain across days of social defeat and levels of blood serum corticosterone 40 min after the last episode of defeat stress. Our data indicates that defeated mice exhibited a depressive-like phenotype as inferred from increased social avoidance, increased immobility in the forced swim test, and reduced sucrose preference (a measure of anhedonia), when compared to non-defeated controls. Defeated mice also displayed an anxiogenic-like phenotype when tested on the elevated plus-maze. Lastly, stressed mice displayed lower body weight gain, along with increased blood serum corticosterone levels, when compared to non-stressed controls. Overall, we show that in adolescent male c57BL/6 mice, social defeat stress induces a depression- and anxiety-like phenotype 24 h after the last episode of stress. These data suggest that the social defeat paradigm may be used to examine the etiology of stress-induced mood-related disorders during adolescence.

The publication of clinical prediction rules (CPRs) studies has risen significantly. It is unclear if this reflects increasing usage of these tools in clinical practice or how this may vary across clinical areas. To review clinical guidelines in selected areas and survey GPs in order to explore CPR usefulness in the opinion of experts and use at the point of care. A review of clinical guidelines and survey of UK GPs. Clinical guidelines in eight clinical domains with published CPRs were reviewed for recommendations to use CPRs including primary prevention of cardiovascular disease, transient ischaemic attack (TIA) and stroke, diabetes mellitus, fracture risk assessment in osteoporosis, lower limb fractures, breast cancer, depression, and acute infections in childhood. An online survey of 401 UK GPs was also conducted. Guideline review: Of 7637 records screened by title and/or abstract, 243 clinical guidelines met inclusion criteria. CPRs were most commonly recommended in guidelines regarding primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (67%) and depression (67%). There was little consensus across various clinical guidelines as to which CPR to use preferentially. Of 401 responders to the GP survey, most were aware of and applied named CPRs in the clinical areas of cardiovascular disease and depression. The commonest reasons for using CPRs were to guide management and conform to local policy requirements. GPs use CPRs to guide management but also to comply with local policy requirements. Future research could focus on which clinical areas clinicians would most benefit from CPRs and promoting the use of robust, externally validated CPRs.

Aesthetic preferences are ubiquitous in visual experience. Indeed, it seems nearly impossible in many circumstances to perceive a scene without also liking or disliking it to some degree. Aesthetic factors are only occasionally studied in mainstream vision science, though, and even then they are often treated as functionally independent from other aspects of perception. In contrast, the present study explores the possibility that aesthetic preferences may interact with other types of visual processing. We were inspired, in particular, by the inward bias in aesthetic preferences: When an object with a salient "front" is placed near the border of a frame (say, in a photograph), observers tend to find the image more aesthetically pleasing if the object faces inward (toward the center) than if it faces outward (away from the center). We employed similar stimuli, except that observers viewed framed figures that were ambiguous in terms of the direction they appeared to be facing. The resulting percepts were influenced by the frames in a way that corresponded to the inward bias: When a figure was placed near a frame's border, observers tended to see whichever interpretation was facing inward. This effect occurred for both abstract geometric figures (e.g., ambiguously-oriented triangles) and meaningful line drawings (e.g., left-facing ducks or right-facing rabbits). The match between this new influence on ambiguous figure perception and the previously studied aesthetic bias suggests new ways in which aesthetic factors may relate not only to what we like, but also to what we see in the first place.

Previous studies have shown that single doses of MDMA can affect mood and impair memory in humans. The neuropharmacological mechanisms involved in MDMA-induced memory impairment are not clear. Memantine, an NMDA and alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor antagonist, was able to reverse MDMA-induced memory impairment in rats. This study investigated whether treatment with memantine can prevent MDMA-induced memory impairment in humans. 15 subjects participated in a double-blind, placebo controlled, within-subject design. Subjects received both pre-treatment (placebo/memantine 20 mg) (T1) and treatment (placebo/MDMA 75 mg) (T2) on separate test days. T1 preceded T2 by 120 min. Memory function was assessed 90 min after T2 by means of a Visual Verbal Learning Task, a Prospective Memory Task, the Sternberg Memory Task and the Abstract Visual Pattern Learning Task. Profile of Mood State and psychomotor performance were also assessed to control whether MDMA and memantine interactions would selectively pertain to memory or transfer to other domains as well. MDMA significantly impaired performance in the visual verbal learning task and abstract visual pattern learning task. Pre-treatment with memantine did not prevent MDMA-induced memory impairment in these two tasks. Both positive (vigour, arousal, elation) and negative mood effects (anxiety) were increased by MDMA. The responses were not altered by pretreatment with memantine which had no effect on memory or mood when given alone. These preliminary results suggest that memantine does not reverse MDMA-induced memory impairment and mood in humans. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'CNS Stimulants'.

Rumination has been robustly implicated in the onset and maintenance of depression. However, despite empirically well-supported theories of the consequences of trait rumination (response styles theory; Nolen-Hoeksema, 1991), and of the processes underlying state episodes of goal-oriented repetitive thought (control theory; Martin & Tesser, 1989, 1996), the relationship between these theories remains unresolved. Further, less theoretical and clinical attention has been paid to the maintenance and treatment of trait depressive rumination. We propose that conceptualizing rumination as a mental habit (Hertel, 2004) helps to address these issues. Elaborating on this account, we propose a framework linking the response styles and control theories via a theoretical approach to the relationship between habits and goals (Wood & Neal, 2007). In this model, with repetition in the same context, episodes of self-focused repetitive thought triggered by goal discrepancies can become habitual, through a process of automatic association between the behavioral response (i.e., repetitive thinking) and any context that occurs repeatedly with performance of the behavior (e.g., physical location, mood), and in which the repetitive thought is contingent on the stimulus context. When the contingent response involves a passive focus on negative content and abstract construal, the habit of depressive rumination is acquired. Such habitual rumination is cued by context independent of goals and is resistant to change. This habit framework has clear treatment implications and generates novel testable predictions.

The article focuses on the intimate relationships of remarried Israeli national widows. An analysis of interviews with 15 widows and 12 of their husbands demonstrated the widows' continuing connection to the deceased husband and thus gives further corroboration to the theory of "'continuing bonds'"; husbands also express their relationship as triadic, with the fallen husband assigned a unique position in the family constellation, albeit not threatening to the new husband. The article concludes with specific guidelines for planning therapeutic programs, e.g., recommending clients to use some symbolic objects, either abstract or concrete, to help widows rebuild their self-identity.

This study analyzed the subjective facets of quality of life (QoL) and their relation to the type of brain tumor (BT) and phase of disease. Two hundred and ninety-one patients with pinealoblastoma, medulloblastoma, low-grade glioma, anaplastic astrocytoma, or glioblastoma were evaluated. With respect to 110 healthy controls, patients in the phases of radiotherapy/chemotherapy, stable disease, or tumor recurrence were significantly more anxious and depressed compared with patients in the early postoperative period. All patients were impaired in mental flexibility and memory, with preservation of abstract reasoning. The Functional Living Index-Cancer (FLIC), previously validated in cancer and BT patients, yielded six subjective factors (disease perception, affective well-being, role and leisure, personal base, nausea, sharing). None of the FLIC factors were predicted by tumor type, which only related to the physical and cognitive performances and mood scores. Affective well-being, role and leisure, and sharing were predicted by the phase of disease. Personal base, including self-perception and confidence, was independent on tumor progression and treatment. To conclude, QoL encompasses different subjective aspects, which vary in relation to the phase of disease and clinical burden. However, some person-related facets appear independent on tumor progression and treatment, indicating individual resources. Knowing this may guide tailored interventions supporting QoL.

The hypothesis that abstract words are grounded in emotion has been supported by behavioral research and corpus studies of English words. A recent neuroimaging study reported that a single brain region, the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC), is responsive to abstract words, and is furthermore modulated by the emotional valence. This finding is surprising because the rACC is not commonly associated with semantic processing. It is possible that the effects observed were driven not by abstractness, but rather by valence, since the abstract words used in that study were significantly more emotional than the concrete words. We tested this hypothesis by presenting participants with words that were abstract/concrete, as well as emotionally valenced/neutral in a 2×2 factorial design. Activations to emotional words overlapped with both abstract and concrete activations throughout the brain. An ROI analysis revealed that the rACC was responsive to valence, not abstractness, when concreteness and valence unconfounded.

Research in the cognitive and social psychological science has revealed the pervading relation between body and mind. Physical warmth leads people to perceive others as psychological closer to them and to be more generous towards others. More recently, physical warmth has also been implicated in the processing of information, specifically through perceiving relationships (via physical warmth) and contrasting from others (via coldness). In addition, social psychological work has linked social cues (such as mimicry and power cues) to creative performance. The present work integrates these two literatures, by providing an embodied model of creative performance through relational (warm = relational) and referential (cold = distant) processing. The authors predict and find that warm cues lead to greater creativity when 1) creating drawings, 2) categorizing objects, and 3) coming up with gifts for others. In contrast, cold cues lead to greater creativity, when 1) breaking set in a metaphor recognition task, 2) coming up with new pasta names, and 3) being abstract in coming up with gifts. Effects are found across different populations and age groups. The authors report implications for theory and discuss limitations of the present work.

Visual perspective in autobiographical memories was examined in terms of reliability, consistency, and relationship to objective memory performance in a sample of 99 individuals. Autobiographical memories may be recalled from two visual perspectives--a field perspective in which individuals experience the memory through their own eyes, or an observer perspective in which individuals experience the memory from the viewpoint of an observer in which they can see themselves. Participants recalled nine word-cued memories that differed in emotional valence (positive, negative and neutral) and rated their memories on 18 scales. Results indicate that visual perspective was the most reliable memory characteristic overall and is consistently related to emotional intensity at the time of recall and amount of emotion experienced during the memory. Visual perspective is unrelated to memory for words, stories, abstract line drawings or faces.

Attention for the expanding group of cancer survivors at work, and the late effects they are confronted with while working, has been limited. The objective of this systematic review is to identify and summarize studies, exploring ongoing physical and/or psychosocial problems related to functioning of employees with a history of cancer, beyond their return to work. Publications were identified through computerized Medline, Psychinfo, Embase, and Cinahl searches (January 2000-March 2013). Studies had to be directed at cancer survivors, who were employed during the study. Both qualitative and quantitative studies were included. Quality assessment of these studies was performed. Two reviewers independently extracted data from each publication, e.g., physical and/or psychosocial problems (e.g., fatigue and cognitive limitations), outcome measures (e.g., work productivity), and qualitative and quantitative results. The search identified 8979 articles. After exclusion on title and abstract, 64 were retrieved for full text screening, of which 30 met the inclusion criteria. A total of 20 studies reported quantitative and 10 studies reported qualitative results. The majority of studies assessed psychosocial problems in cancer survivors at work. Cognitive limitations, coping issues, fatigue, depression, and anxiety were reported to influence work ability. Physical problems, such as difficulties with lifting and treatment-induced menopausal symptoms, were frequently described to affect functioning at work. Ongoing physical and/or psychosocial problems are present in occupationally active cancer survivors, which may cause serious difficulties at work. The results of this study may be used as input for developing supportive interventions for these survivors.

There are two distinct modes of self-focus: analytical self-focus is abstract, general and evaluative whereas experiential self-focus is concrete, specific and non-evaluative. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated the neural bases of these two modes of self-focus in relation with brooding, the maladaptive form of rumination. Forty-one French-speaking right-handed healthy young adults (10 men, mean age ± s.d.: 21.8 ± 2.3 years) engaged in analytical and experiential self-focus triggered by verbal stimuli during fMRI. Brooding was measured with the 22-item Rumination Response Style scale. Individuals with lower brooding scores showed greater activation of the posterior cingulate cortex/precuneus during analytical than experiential self-focus, whereas individuals with higher brooding scores did not. This is consistent with the hypothesis that brooding is associated with less control over the nature of the self-focus engaged. These findings may help to refine our understanding of how rumination promotes depression through maladaptive self-focus.

Neuropsychological impairments of the executive functions, memory, attention, intelligence quotient, and empathy have been found in perpetrators of domestic violence (intimate partner violence). These impairments could be partially explained by alcohol abuse, dependence, or traumatic brain injuries. This study reviews the neuropsychological deficits of perpetrators of intimate partner violence. At the same it seeks to integrate and relate these main points with their neuroanatomical correlates. We have also established the relationship between alcohol abuse, dependence, brain damage (including traumatic brain injuries) and those deficits. Scientific literature has been reviewed by means of Google Scholar, PsycINFO, PubMed, Medline and ISI Web of Knowledge. Perpetrators of domestic violence present high mental rigidity, as well as low levels of inhibition, processing speed, verbal and attention skills, and abstract reasoning. Additionally, perpetrators show working and long play memory impairments. Moreover, those deficits could be impaired by traumatic brain injuries and alcohol abuse and/or dependence. Nonetheless, these both variables are not enough to explain the deficits. Functional abnormalities on the prefrontal and occipital cortex, fusiform gyrus, posterior cingulate gyrus, hippocampus, thalamus and amygdala could be associated with these impairments. An analysis of these mechanisms may assist in the development of neuropsychological rehabilitation programmes that could help improve current therapies.

We examined the influence of affective priming on the appreciation of abstract artworks using an evaluative priming task. Facial primes (showing happiness, disgust or no emotion) were presented under brief (Stimulus Onset Asynchrony, SOA = 20 ms) and extended (SOA = 300 ms) conditions. Differences in aesthetic liking for abstract paintings depending on the emotion expressed in the preceding primes provided a measure of the priming effect. The results showed that, for the extended SOA, artworks were liked more when preceded by happiness primes and less when preceded by disgust primes. Facial expressions of happiness, though not of disgust, exerted similar effects in the brief SOA condition. Subjective measures and a forced-choice task revealed no evidence of prime awareness in the suboptimal condition. Our results are congruent with findings showing that the affective transfer elicited by priming biases evaluative judgments, extending previous research to the domain of aesthetic appreciation.

If an organism's responding to its present location or more abstract situation is similar to its responding to discrete motivationally salient stimuli, then principles of stimulus-response relationships and their acquisition may apply to the organization of behavior that appears to be sensitive and appropriate to the organism's external context. Locations or situations become motivationally salient, insofar as they acquire the ability to compel the organism to obtain a specific type of reward through more or less constrained exploratory or foraging behavior. The ventral hippocampus is proposed to play a key role in linking a salient situation or location with an appropriate mode of behavior, whereas allocentric information predicted and updated by the dorsal hippocampus may be associated with, or translated into, a sequence of orienting and locomotor actions. The impact of ventral hippocampal representations of salient situations on behavior is mediated by the ventral subiculum, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and ventral striatum. Projecting via the ventral subiculum to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum, the ventral hippocampus maps motivationally salient environmental information, as well as emotional information reflective of the internal physiological milieu, onto an instrumental or emotional behavior mode that represents a specialized, more or less purposeful, state of behavioral arousal and global locomotor activation.

Even with optimal dopaminergic treatments, many patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are frequently incapacitated by apathy prior to the development of dementia. We sought to establish whether rivastigmine's ability to inhibit acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterases could relieve the symptoms of apathy in dementia-free, non-depressed patients with advanced PD. We performed a multicentre, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised clinical trial (Protocol ID: 2008-002578-36; clinicaltrials.gov reference: NCT00767091) in patients with PD with moderate to severe apathy (despite optimised dopaminergic treatment) and without dementia. Patients from five French university hospitals were randomly assigned 1:1 to rivastigmine (transdermal patch of 9.5 mg/day) or placebo for 6 months. The primary efficacy criterion was the change over time in the Lille Apathy Rating Scale (LARS) score. 101 consecutive patients were screened, 31 were eligible and 16 and 14 participants were randomised into the rivastigmine and placebo groups, respectively. Compared with placebo, rivastigmine improved the LARS score (from -11.5 (-15/-7) at baseline to -20 (-25/-12) after treatment; F(1, 25)=5.2; p=0.031; adjusted size effect: -0.9). Rivastigmine also improved the caregiver burden and instrumental activities of daily living but failed to improve quality of life. No severe adverse events occurred in the rivastigmine group. Rivastigmine may represent a new therapeutic option for moderate to severe apathy in advanced PD patients with optimised dopaminergic treatment and without depression dementia. These findings require confirmation in a larger clinical trial. Our results also confirmed that the presence of apathy can herald a pre-dementia state in PD. Clinicaltrials.gov reference: NCT00767091.

Information on cognitive impairment in aphasic patients is limited. Our aim was to investigate the prevalence and course of nonlinguistic cognitive impairments in the first year after stroke and their association with aphasia and functional outcome. We included 147 patients with acute aphasia. At 3 months and 1 year, we assessed cognition with a nonlinguistic cognitive examination including abstract reasoning, visual memory, visual perception and construction, and executive functioning. We assessed language with a verbal communication rating (Aphasia Severity Rating Scale), the ScreeLing (a linguistic-level screening test), and the Token Test. We evaluated functional outcome with the modified Rankin scale and registered the use of antidepressants. In total, 107 (88%) patients had impairments in at least one nonlinguistic cognitive domain at 3 months and 91 (80%) at 1 year. The most frequently observed impairment concerned visual memory (83% at 3 months; 78% at 1 year) and the least frequent visual perception and construction (19% at 3 months; 14% at 1 year). There was improvement on all cognitive domains including language, except for abstract reasoning. Patients with persisting aphasia had lower cognitive domain scores, worse functional outcome, and were more often depressed than patients who had recovered from aphasia. Standard nonlinguistic cognitive examination is recommended in aphasic stroke patients. Nonlinguistic cognitive impairments are common and associated with poor functional outcome and depression, especially in patients with persisting aphasia.

While the individual contributions of narrative and emotion processes to psychotherapy outcome have been the focus of recent interest in psychotherapy research literature, the empirical analysis of narrative and emotion integration has rarely been addressed. The Narrative-Emotion Processes Coding System (NEPCS) was developed to provide researchers with a systematic method for identifying specific narrative and emotion process markers, for application to therapy session videos. The present study examined the relationship between NEPCS-derived problem markers (same old storytelling, empty storytelling, unstoried emotion, abstract storytelling) and change markers (competing plotlines storytelling, inchoate storytelling, unexpected outcome storytelling, and discovery storytelling), and treatment outcome (recovered versus unchanged at therapy termination) and stage of therapy (early, middle, late) in brief emotion-focused (EFT), client-centred (CCT), and cognitive (CT) therapies for depression. Hierarchical linear modelling analyses demonstrated a significant Outcome effect for inchoate storytelling (p = .037) and discovery storytelling (p = .002), a Stage × Outcome effect for abstract storytelling (p = .05), and a Stage × Outcome × Treatment effect for competing plotlines storytelling (p = .001). There was also a significant Stage × Outcome effect for NEPCS problem markers (p = .007) and change markers (p = .03). The results provide preliminary support for the importance of assessing the contribution of narrative-emotion processes to efficacious treatment outcomes in EFT, CCT, and CT treatments of depression.

Research into mental imagery has increased our understanding of a range of psychological problems. However, there has been little study into the spontaneous mental images experienced in response to chronic pain. This study aimed to explore the prevalence and characteristics of these pain-related mental images. Four hundred ninety-one people with chronic pain who had attended a pain clinic were sent invites to participate and 105 people responded (21%). A mixed-methods approach (quantitative and qualitative) was used to explore the prevalence of pain-related mental imagery, differences between imagers and non-imagers, and the content of imagery in pain. In our sample, 36% of respondents reported having mental images of their pain, with the majority describing them as clear and vivid (83%), experienced daily (80.5%), and distressing (83%). Participants who experienced mental images reported higher depression scores, higher anxiety and higher pain unpleasantness. Frequency of imagery was associated with greater pain unpleasantness. Content analysis of the pain images revealed emerging themes relating to the sensory qualities of pain, anatomical representations, pain as a form of threat or attack, pain as an object, and pain as an abstract image. This study describes themes and characteristics of pain-related mental imagery and confirms that they are a frequent, vivid and distressing experience for many chronic pain sufferers. The results of this study suggest that pain-related mental imagery could provide an additional route for assessment and intervention. Further research should focus on assessment, measurement and intervention in clinical populations.

Individual differences in higher-order cognitive abilities may be an important piece to understanding how and when self-discrepancies lead to negative emotions. In the current study, three measures of reasoning abilities were considered as potential moderators of the relationship between self-discrepancies and depression and anxiety symptoms. Participants (N = 162) completed measures assessing self-discrepancies, depression and anxiety symptoms, and were administered measures examining formal operational thought, and verbal and non-verbal abstract reasoning skills. Both formal operational thought and verbal abstract reasoning were significant moderators of the relationship between actual:ideal discrepancies and depressive symptoms. Discrepancies predicted depressive symptoms for individuals with higher levels of formal operational thought and verbal abstract reasoning skills, but not for those with lower levels. The discussion focuses on the need to consider advanced reasoning skills when examining self-discrepancies.

Size is an important visuo-spatial characteristic of the physical world. In language processing, previous research has demonstrated a processing advantage for words denoting semantically "big" (e.g., jungle) versus "small" (e.g., needle) concrete objects. We investigated whether semantic size plays a role in the recognition of words expressing abstract concepts (e.g., truth). Semantically "big" and "small" concrete and abstract words were presented in a lexical decision task. Responses to "big" words, regardless of their concreteness, were faster than those to "small" words. Critically, we explored the relationship between semantic size and affective characteristics of words as well as their influence on lexical access. Although a word's semantic size was correlated with its emotional arousal, the temporal locus of arousal effects may depend on the level of concreteness. That is, arousal seemed to have an earlier (lexical) effect on abstract words, but a later (post-lexical) effect on concrete words. Our findings provide novel insights into the semantic representations of size in abstract concepts and highlight that affective attributes of words may not always index lexical access.

Abstract In children, the importance of detecting deficits after mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) or concussion has grown with the increasing popularity of leisure physical activities and contact sports. Whereas most postconcussive symptoms (PCS) are similar for children and adults, the breadth of consequences to children remains largely unknown. To investigate the effect of mTBI on brain function, we compared working memory performance and related brain activity using blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in 15 concussed youths and 15 healthy age-matched control subjects. Neuropsychological tests, self-perceived PCS, and levels of anxiety and depression were also assessed. Our results showed that, behaviorally, concussed youths had significantly worse performances on the working memory tasks, as well as on the Rey figure delayed recall and verbal fluency. fMRI results revealed that, compared to healthy children, concussed youths had significantly reduced task-related activity in bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, left premotor cortex, supplementary motor area, and left superior parietal lobule during performance of verbal and nonverbal working memory tasks. Additionally, concussed youths also showed less activation than healthy controls in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, left thalamus, and left caudate nucleus during the nonverbal task. Regression analysis indicated that BOLD signal changes in bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were significantly correlated with performance such that greater activities in these regions, relative to the control condition, were associated with greater accuracy. Our findings confirmed functional alterations in brain activity after concussion in youths, a result similar to that observed in adults. However, significant differences were noted. In particular, the observation of reduced working memory accuracy suggests that youths may be unable to engage compensatory strategies to maintain cognitive performance after mTBI. This has significant implications for safe return to daily activities, including competitive sport.

Brewin and Burgess (2013) argue that our recent papers investigating the role of contextual representations in intrusive memories do not pose a challenge to dual-representation theory as originally claimed (Pearson, 2012; Pearson, Ross, & Webster, 2012). Here I point out that their alternative explanation for our results can be rejected using data already published in both papers. I also argue that their definition of what constitutes a contextual representation renders their revised dual-representation theory incompatible with experimental results that have previously been argued in the literature to support it. Valuable though their contribution is, it does not impact on our main conclusion that abstract contextual representations serve to increase intrusive memories for traumatic material.

Classically, external receptors of the body transmit information from the environment to the cerebral cortex via the thalamus. This review explains and argues that only concrete external information is transmitted from peripheral receptors to the cortex via a thalamic route, while abstract and sexual external information are actually transmitted from peripheral receptors to the cortex through a cognitive hypothalamic route. Sexual function typically implies participation of two distinct partners, ensuring reproduction in many species including humans. Human sexual response involves participation of multiple (environmental, biological, psychological) kinds of stimuli and processing, so the understanding of sexual control and response supposes integration between the classical physiological mechanisms with the more complex processes of our 'mind'. Cognition and sexuality are two relational functions, which are dependent on concrete (colours, sounds, etc.) and/or abstract (gestures, facial expression, how you move, the way you say something seemingly trivial, etc.) environmental cues. Abstract cues are encoded independent of the specific object features of the stimuli, suggesting that such cues should be transmitted and interpreted within the brain through a system different than the classical thalamo-cortical network that operates on concrete (material) information. Indeed, data show that the cerebral cortex is capable of interpreting two distinct (concrete and abstract) formats of information via distinct and non-compatible brain areas. We expand upon this abstract-concrete dichotomy of the brain, positing that the two distinct cortical networks should be uploaded with distinct information from the environment via two distinct informational input routes. These two routes would be represented by the two distinct routes of the ascending reticular activating system (ARAS), namely the classical/dorsal thalamic input route for concrete information and the ventral hypothalamic input route for abstract cognition and sexuality. Physiologically, the hypothalamic (dual-autonomic) route of the ARAS that processes abstract and sexual information is incompatible with the thalamic (somatic) route of the ARAS that processes concrete information, such that the two distinct routes would be needed to support the mind processes (awareness, consciousness, sexuality) through their own informational inputs from the environment. Informationally, the concrete external data are differentiated from abstract and sexual external data, so that they should be transmitted to cortex through distinct input routes. Pathologically, the hardware and/or software impairments of the hypothalamic default-mode network generate disturbed messages within the brain (related to information transmitted on this route), laying at the basis of mental and sexual disorders. The novel conceptualisations presented in the present paper help address issues surrounding the mind-brain dichotomy and, in doing so, suggest new possible avenues for exploration in the treatment and interventions for cognitive and sexual problems.

Visual art, as with all other arts, is spontaneously created only by humans and is ubiquitously present to various extents in all societies today. Exploring the deep roots of art from cognitive, neurological, genetic, evolutionary, archaeological, and biological perspectives is essential for the full understanding of why we have art, and what art is about. The cognitive basis of art is symbolic, abstract, and referential thinking. However, archaeological markers of symbolic activity by early humans are not associated with art production. There is an enormously large time gap between the activity and the appearance of sporadic art by early Homo sapiens, and another large time delay before appearance of enduring practice of art. The aesthetic aspect of art is not considered to be the initial impetus for creating it. Instead, archaeological markers suggest that the early beginnings of art are associated with development of stratified societies where external visual identifiers by way of body ornaments and decorations were used. The major contributing forces for the consistency in art-making are presumed to be the formation of socioculture, intragroup cooperation, increased group size, survival of skillful artisans, and favorable demographic conditions. The biological roots of art are hypothesized to parallel aspects of our ancestry, specifically animal courtship displays, where signals of health and genetic quality are exhibited for inspection by potential mates. Viewers assess displayed art for talent, skill, communicative, and aesthetic-related qualities. Interdisciplinary discussions of art reflect the current approach to full understanding of the nature of art.

There is a long-standing and fundamental debate regarding how emotion can be expressed by fine art. Some artists and theorists have claimed that certain features of paintings, such as color, line, form, and composition, can consistently express an "objective" emotion, while others have argued that emotion perception is subjective and depends more on expertise of the observer. Here, we discuss two studies in which we have found evidence for consistency in observer ratings of emotion for abstract artworks. We have developed a stimulus set of abstract art images to test emotional priming, both between different painting images and between paintings and faces. The ratings were also used in a computational vision analysis of the visual features underlying emotion expression. Overall, these findings suggest that there is a strong bottom-up and objective aspect to perception of emotion in abstract artworks that may tap into basic visual mechanisms.

Abstract Traumatic brain injury (TBI) increases the risk of neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly anxiety disorders. Yet, there are presently no therapeutic interventions to prevent the development of post-traumatic anxiety or effective treatments once it has developed. This is because, in large part, of a lack of understanding of the underlying pathophysiology. Recent research suggests that chronic neuroinflammatory responses to injury may play a role in the development of post-traumatic anxiety in rodent models. Acute peri-injury administration of immunosuppressive compounds, such as Ibudilast (MN166), have been shown to prevent reactive gliosis associated with immune responses to injury and also prevent lateral fluid percussion injury (LFPI)-induced anxiety-like behavior in rats. There is evidence in both human and rodent studies that post-traumatic anxiety, once developed, is a chronic, persistent, and drug-refractory condition. In the present study, we sought to determine whether neuroinflammation is associated with the long-term maintenance of post-traumatic anxiety. We examined the efficacy of an anti-inflammatory treatment in decreasing anxiety-like behavior and reactive gliosis when introduced at 1 month after injury. Delayed treatment substantially reduced established LFPI-induced freezing behavior and reactive gliosis in brain regions associated with anxiety and continued neuroprotective effects were evidenced 6 months post-treatment. These results support the conclusion that neuroinflammation may be involved in the development and maintenance of anxiety-like behaviors after TBI.

I call attention to the metapsychology of sense, and the role sense plays-phenomenologically and symbolically-in the life of the clinician and the group. Each group member asserts influence in taking a role as the perceiver and the perceived, the senser and the sensed. We reach for sense, for without sense reference, we cannot grasp or even talk about psychic reality. It serves as sign and symbol, as metaphor, analogy, illustration, and model. Sense fixes experience yet may fixate experience and interfere with developing abstract thoughts. Clinical vignettes illustrate how the leader may utilize his or her particular clinical sensibility to reach the group and focus attention, to link sense to psychic qualities: to the personality of the members, the group culture and process, and the live clinical interaction.

ABSTRACT. Given the voluntary nature of adolescent friendships, forgiveness of interpersonal transgressions has been identified as a critical aspect of maintaining these relationships. However, transgression forgiveness is related to a range of situational (e.g., transgression severity), interpersonal (e.g., friendship commitment), and intrapersonal (e.g., victim's empathy) factors. Data from 161 adolescents were used to examine the nature of the relationships between these factors and forgiveness and to examine the differential association patterns for adolescent boys and girls. Results for the overall adolescent sample indicated both situational and interpersonal factor associations with forgiveness (R2 = .52, p < .001). Examination of separate female and male forgiveness reports indicated similar interpersonal factor associations and differential situational factor associations with female (R2 = .46, p < .001), and male (R2 = .60, p < .001) forgiveness. Findings suggest the likelihood of forgiving may be contextually dependent, and that researchers should consider transgression, relationship, and intrapersonal characteristics when examining forgiveness. Further, the present study suggests the contextual factors associated with forgiveness may be further differentiated by gender.

Pain catastrophizing is a well-known concept in the pain literature and has been recognized as one of the most powerful psychological determinants of negative outcomes for pain problems. However, relatively little effort has been put into developing its theoretical underpinnings. More specifically, the intrinsic function of catastrophizing is not explicitly dealt with in contemporary theoretical models. The aim of this article is to add to existing models by proposing a development of the conceptualization of catastrophizing that stresses its function as an emotion regulator. We argue that catastrophizing can be conceptualized as a form of negative repetitive thinking, which is abstract, intrusive, and difficult to disengage from. It has been argued that repetitive negative thinking is a form of ineffective problem solving that functions to downregulate negative affect and that it can be regarded as an avoidant coping strategy because it impedes processing of emotional and somatic responses. Thus, in our conceptualization, catastrophizing is proposed to be a form of problem-solving behavior that functions to reduce negative emotion triggered by pain, and other related stimuli. Furthermore, we argue that catastrophizing is preferably regarded as a process where cognitions, emotions, and overt behavior are intertwined and not viewed as separate entities. To underscore the latter, we suggest the term catastrophic worry. Our intention with this development of the conceptualization is to give rise to new ideas for research and clinical practice and to revitalize discussions about the theoretical framework around pain-related catastrophizing.

Guilt is an important social and moral emotion. In addition to feeling unpleasant, guilt is metaphorically described as a "weight on one's conscience." Evidence from the field of embodied cognition suggests that abstract metaphors may be grounded in bodily experiences, but no prior research has examined the embodiment of guilt. Across four studies we examine whether i) unethical acts increase subjective experiences of weight, ii) feelings of guilt explain this effect, and iii) whether there are consequences of the weight of guilt. Studies 1-3 demonstrated that unethical acts led to more subjective body weight compared to control conditions. Studies 2 and 3 indicated that heightened feelings of guilt mediated the effect, whereas other negative emotions did not. Study 4 demonstrated a perceptual consequence. Specifically, an induction of guilt affected the perceived effort necessary to complete tasks that were physical in nature, compared to minimally physical tasks.

Does compassion feel pleasant or unpleasant? Westerners tend to categorize compassion as a pleasant or positive emotion, but laboratory compassion inductions, which present another's suffering, may elicit unpleasant feelings. Across two studies, we examined whether prototypical conceptualizations of compassion (as pleasant) differ from experiences of compassion (as unpleasant). After laboratory-based neutral or compassion inductions, participants made abstract judgments about compassion relative to various emotion-related adjectives, thereby providing a prototypical conceptualization of compassion. Participants also rated their own affective states, thereby indicating experiences of compassion. Conceptualizations of compassion were pleasant across neutral and compassion inductions. After exposure to others' suffering, however, participants felt increased levels of compassion and unpleasant affect, but not pleasant affect. After neutral inductions, participants reported more pleasant than unpleasant affect, with moderate levels of compassion. Thus, prototypical conceptualizations of compassion are pleasant, but experiences of compassion can feel pleasant or unpleasant. The implications for emotion theory in general are discussed.

Debate persists with regard to how best to categorize the syndromal dimension of negative symptoms in schizophrenia. The aim was to first review published Principle Components Analysis (PCA) of the PANSS, and extract items most frequently included in the negative domain, and secondly, to examine the quality of items using Item Response Theory (IRT) to select items that best represent a measurable dimension (or dimensions) of negative symptoms. First, 22 factor analyses and PCA met were included. Second, using a large dataset (n=7187) of participants in clinical trials with chronic schizophrenia, we extracted items loading on one or more PCA. Third, items not loading with a value of ≥ 0.5, or loading on more than one component with values of ≥ 0.5 were discarded. Fourth, resulting items were included in a non-parametric IRT and retained based on Option Characteristic Curves (OCCs) and Item Characteristic Curves (ICCs). 15 items loaded on a negative domain in at least one study, with Emotional Withdrawal loading on all studies. Non-parametric IRT retained nine items as an Integrated Negative Factor: Emotional Withdrawal, Blunted Affect, Passive/Apathetic Social Withdrawal, Poor Rapport, Lack of Spontaneity/Conversation Flow, Active Social Avoidance, Disturbance of Volition, Stereotyped Thinking and Difficulty in Abstract Thinking. This is the first study to use a psychometric IRT process to arrive at a set of negative symptom items. Future steps will include further examination of these nine items in terms of their stability, sensitivity to change, and correlations with functional and cognitive outcomes.

The zebrafish is gaining popularity in behavioral brain research. It may be a cost-effective tool with which we can improve our understanding of the biological and genetic mechanisms of human brain function and dysfunction. Some, myself and collaborators included, have argued that such translational relevance may be best achieved if one considers the ecology and species-specific characteristics of the study organism. In this review, I focus on our own studies investigating zebrafish fear responses, which may be utilized in analyzing the mechanisms of fear and anxiety, and which may be used for screening anxiolytic drugs. I review how zebrafish respond to their natural and synthetic alarm substance as well as to other fear-inducing stimuli, including sympatric and allopatric predatory fish, sympatric or allopatric harmless fish, moving (animated) images of predatory fish and moving images of abstract shapes. I discuss the behavioral responses these stimuli elicit, summarize the methods of the quantification of the behaviors, and speculate about their possible adaptive nature. Although we utilize complex visual stimuli and do not yet know what key features zebrafish may be sensitive to, our results, together with those published by others, imply that this simple vertebrate may have a bright future in behavioral brain research.

Depressive disorders are disabling conditions striking at all ages. In adults, subthreshold depression (SD) is viewed as being on a continuum with major depressive disorder (MDD). Whether this holds for children and adolescents, is still unclear. We performed the first systematic review of SD in subjects below 18 years, in order to explore if childhood SD and MDD share causal pathways, phenomenology and outcomes, supporting a dimensional view. A critical systematic review in accordance with preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) statement. A review protocol was developed a priori, and all reports were assessed by two reviewers. The literature search generated 941 eligible references and 24 studies were included. Although diagnostic criteria for SD showed great variability, similarities for SD and MDD were striking. Both were common conditions with similar risk factor patterns. Clinical characteristics in both groups were depressed mood, suicidal ideation and high comorbidity. Outcomes were almost equally poor, with increased psychiatric morbidity and health service use. SD intervention studies showed promising results. Reports with data on SD not reported in keywords or abstract may have been missed by the search strategy. A dimensional view of depressive disorders is also supported in children and adolescents, suggesting SD to be a precursor to MDD. Although SD is a somewhat milder condition than MDD, it has severe outcomes with psychopathology and impairment. There is a need of identifying cost-efficient and longlasting interventions in order to prevent development of early SD into MDD.

Symmetry has a central role in visual art, it is often linked to beauty, and observers can detect it efficiently in the lab. We studied what kind of fast and automatic responses are generated by visual presentation of symmetrical patterns. Specifically, we tested whether a brief presentation of novel symmetrical patterns engenders positive affect using a priming paradigm. The abstract patterns were used as primes in a pattern-word interference task. To ensure that familiarity was not a factor, no pattern and no word was ever repeated within each experiment. The task was to classify words that were selected to have either positive or negative valence. We tested irregular patterns, patterns containing vertical and horizontal reflectional symmetry, and patterns containing a 90 deg rotation. In a series of 7 experiments we found that the effect of affective congruence was present for both types of regularity but only when observers had to classify the regularity of the pattern after responding to the word. The findings show that processing abstract symmetrical shapes or random pattern can engender positive or negative affect as long as the regularity of the pattern is a feature that observers have to attend to and classify.

The sound of music may arouse profound emotions in listeners. But such experiences seem to involve a 'paradox', namely that music--an abstract form of art, which appears removed from our concerns in everyday life--can arouse emotions - biologically evolved reactions related to human survival. How are these (seemingly) non-commensurable phenomena linked together? Key is to understand the processes through which sounds are imbued with meaning. It can be argued that the survival of our ancient ancestors depended on their ability to detect patterns in sounds, derive meaning from them, and adjust their behavior accordingly. Such an ecological perspective on sound and emotion forms the basis of a recent multi-level framework that aims to explain emotional responses to music in terms of a large set of psychological mechanisms. The goal of this review is to offer an updated and expanded version of the framework that can explain both 'everyday emotions' and 'aesthetic emotions'. The revised framework--referred to as BRECVEMA--includes eight mechanisms: Brain Stem Reflex, Rhythmic Entrainment, Evaluative Conditioning, Contagion, Visual Imagery, Episodic Memory, Musical Expectancy, and Aesthetic Judgment. In this review, it is argued that all of the above mechanisms may be directed at information that occurs in a 'musical event' (i.e., a specific constellation of music, listener, and context). Of particular significance is the addition of a mechanism corresponding to aesthetic judgments of the music, to better account for typical 'appreciation emotions' such as admiration and awe. Relationships between aesthetic judgments and other mechanisms are reviewed based on the revised framework. It is suggested that the framework may contribute to a long-needed reconciliation between previous approaches that have conceptualized music listeners' responses in terms of either 'everyday emotions' or 'aesthetic emotions'.

Recalling positive memories is a powerful and effective way to improve mood. However, unlike never-depressed individuals, those with current or past depression do not benefit emotionally from positive memory recall. To examine whether rumination is involved in this difficulty, 80 participants (26 currently depressed, 29 recovered depressed, and 25 never depressed) were instructed to recall a positive self-defining memory while in a sad mood. They were then instructed to think about their memory, adopting either an abstract or concrete processing mode. Never-depressed and recovered depressed participants experienced improved mood after memory recall, regardless of processing mode. However, for depressed individuals neither an abstract nor a concrete processing mode produced emotional benefit. These findings suggest that a complex relationship exists among processing mode, memory type, and depressive status, and indicate that the way in which individuals process positive emotional material may have important consequences for treatment.

Post-stroke apathy is a disturbance of motivation evidenced by low initiative, difficulties in starting, sustaining or finishing any goal-directed activity, low self-activation or self-initiated behavior and emotional indifference. Apathy is a common behavioral disturbance in stroke survivors. We aimed to analyze the relationship between post-stroke apathy at 1 year after stroke and (1) apathy in acute phase; (2) demographic, pre-stroke predisposing conditions (previous mild cognitive impairment, alcohol abuse, mood/anxiety disorder) and clinical features (stroke type and location, neurological symptoms); (3) post-stroke depression and post-stroke cognitive impairment, and (4) post-stroke functional outcome, quality of life and the perception of health. Consecutive stroke (infarct/intracerebral hemorrhage) patients without aphasia or consciousness disturbances were included in the acute phase of stroke and assessed at 1 year after stroke. We assessed apathy with the clinically rated version of the Apathy Evaluation Scale. We also assessed post-stroke depression (Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale) and post-stroke cognitive impairment (attention, mental flexibility, verbal, motor and graphomotor initiative, and non-verbal and verbal abstract reasoning, and Mini-Mental State Examination), functional outcome (Barthel Index), quality of life and perception of health (EuroQol). Data were analyzed using bivariate associations (χ(2) and t test) and stepwise multivariate analysis. We included 76 stroke patients [32.9% women, mean age 62.9 years (SD = 10.9) and a mean of 6.9 (SD = 4.3) years of education]. Apathy was present in 17 patients in the acute phase and in 18 (23.7%) patients at 1 year after stroke. At 1 year after stroke, 41% of the acute apathetic patients remained apathetic. Sixty-one percent of new cases of post-stroke apathy were detected. Post-stroke apathy was associated only with previous cognitive impairment, apathy in acute stroke, post-stroke cognitive impairment, verbal abstract reasoning and with worse Barthel Index scale scores. In the multivariate logistic regression model, verbal abstract reasoning (odds ratio, OR = 7.03) and apathy in acute stroke (OR = 3.8) were identified as independent factors for post-stroke apathy at 1 year. Apathetic patients did not report worse quality of life or health. Apathy in acute stroke phase was a reliable indicator of post-stroke apathy. Apathy should be assessed in both phases. Verbal abstract reasoning impairment was also an independent factor for post-stroke apathy impairing patients' ability to reason about goal-directed activity. Even though apathetic patients had worse post-stroke functional outcome, they did not report losing quality of life or having worse health.

This study aimed to determine whether affective priming is influenced by the concreteness of emotional words. To address this question, we conducted three experiments using lexical decision-priming task. In Experiment 1, positive-abstract (PA) and positive-concrete (PC) words were used as primes to examine the effect of the concreteness of positive words on affective priming, and in Experiment 2, negative-abstract (NA) and negative-concrete (NC) words were used as primes to examine the effect of the concreteness of negative words on affective priming. Results showed that participants responded faster to affectively congruent-abstract trails than incongruent-abstract trails in PA prime conditions, but for PC or negative word (NC and NA) prime conditions, there were no differences between the response times of congruent trails and incongruent trails. To examine the reliability of the priming effects observed in Experiments 1 and 2, we set up a neutral condition as a baseline in Experiment 3, through which we confirmed the difference in the affective priming effect between positive and negative primes in a concrete-abstract dimension. PA words were found to have the tendency to possess more emotional load and facilitate affective association between the prime and the target. The study finding suggests that aside from arousal and valence, the concreteness of positive words also has an impact on affective priming effect.

This study evaluated psychometric properties of the Iconographical Falls Efficacy Scale (Icon-FES) to measure fear of falling in cognitively impaired older people. Icon-FES uses pictures as visual cues to prompt responses. A total of 50 community-dwelling older people with moderate cognitive impairment were assessed on Icon-FES, Falls Efficacy Scale-International, and various physical and cognitive measures. Overall structure and measurement properties of Icon-FES, as evaluated with item response theory, were good. Internal consistency was high (Cronbach's alpha = 0.97). Distribution was near normal, indicating absence of floor and ceiling effects. Icon-FES construct validity was supported by its relation with Falls Efficacy Scale-International (r = .68, p < .001) and its ability to discriminate between groups relating to fall risk factors (gender, balance, falls). Scores were not affected by different levels of cognitive functioning, as assessed with the Mini-Mental State Examination and Trail Making Test. Icon-FES is the first measure of fear of falling that compensates for reduced abstract abilities by using pictures to match the verbal descriptions. This study supports its feasibility, reliability, and validity to assess fear of falling in people with moderate cognitive impairment or dementia living in the community. Compared with Falls Efficacy Scale-International, Icon-FES was better at identifying participants with higher fall risk and did not show a floor effect likely due to a greater range of physically challenging activities.

The problem of how abstract word meanings are represented has been a challenging one. In the present study, we extended the semantic richness approach (e.g., Yap, Tan, Pexman, & Hargreaves in Psychonomic Bulletin & Review 18:742-750, 2011) to abstract words, examining the effects of six semantic richness variables on lexical-semantic processing for 207 abstract nouns. The candidate richness dimensions were context availability (CA), sensory experience rating (SER), valence, arousal, semantic neighborhood (SN), and number of associates (NoA). The behavioral tasks were lexical decision (LDT) and semantic categorization (SCT). Our results showed that the semantic richness variables were significantly related to both LDT and SCT latencies, even after lexical and orthographic factors were controlled. The patterns of richness effects varied across tasks, with CA effects in the LDT, and SER and valence effects in the SCT. These results provide new insight into how abstract meanings may be grounded, and are consistent with a dynamic, multidimensional framework for semantic processing.

Trauma-related rumination has been found to be an important maintaining factor for PTSD. On the background of the processing mode account of ruminative thinking, this study tested whether the relationship between rumination and analogue PTSD symptoms can be modified by training participants in a concrete mode of processing. Healthy participants were trained in either an abstract or a concrete style of processing. Afterwards, they watched a stressful film. The interactive effect of training condition and trait rumination on intrusive memories of the film was examined. Following abstract training, a positive relationship between trait rumination and intrusive memories of the film emerged. As hypothesized, this relationship disappeared following concrete training. include the lack of a no-training control group and the analogue paradigm used. The study provides preliminary evidence that the relationship between trait rumination and analogue PTSD symptoms can be modified. If replicated in future studies, it may be promising to examine the value of concreteness training for prevention and/or treatment of PTSD.

Previous research has suggested that regulating emotions through reappraisal does not incur cognitive costs. However, in those experiments, cognitive costs were often assessed by recognition memory for information that was contextually related to the emotionally evocative stimuli and may have been incorporated into the reappraisal script, facilitating memory. Furthermore, there is little research on the cognitive correlates of regulating positive emotions. In the current experiment, we tested memory for information that was contextually unrelated to the emotional stimuli and could not easily be related to the reappraisal. Participants viewed neutral and mildly positive slides and either reappraised, suppressed their emotions, or viewed the images with no emotion regulation instruction. At the same time, they heard abstract words that were unrelated to the picture stimuli. Subsequent verbal recognition memory was lower after reappraising than viewing, whereas non-verbal recognition memory (of the slides) was higher after reappraising, but only for positive pictures and when participants viewed the positive pictures first. Suppression had no significant effect on either verbal or non-verbal recognition scores, although there was a trend towards poorer recognition of verbal information. The findings support the notion that reappraisal is effortful and draws on limited cognitive resources, causing decrements in performance in a concurrent memory task.

Recent studies have reported that emotional words are processed faster than neutral words, though emotional benefits may not depend solely on words' emotionality. Drawing on an embodied approach to representation, we examined interactions between emotional, sensorimotor, and linguistic sources of information for target words embedded in sentential contexts. Using eye-movement measures for 43 native English speakers, we observed emotional benefits for negative and positive words and sensorimotor benefits for words high in concreteness, but only when target words were low in frequency. Moreover, emotional words were maximally faster than neutral words when words were low in concreteness (i.e., highly abstract), and sensorimotor benefits occurred only when words were not emotionally charged (i.e., emotionally neutral). Furthermore, emotional and concreteness benefits were attenuated by individual differences that attenuate and amplify emotional and sensorimotor information, respectively. Our results suggest that behavior is functionally modulated by embodied information (i.e., emotional and sensorimotor) when linguistic contributions to representation are not enhanced by high frequency. Furthermore, emotional benefits are maximal when words are not already embodied by sensorimotor contributions to representation (and vice versa). Our work is consistent with recent studies that have suggested that abstract words are grounded in emotional experiences, analogous to how concrete words are grounded in sensorimotor experiences.

Abstract Primary objective: To provide an overview of useful clinical information for healthcare providers involved in traumatic brain injury (TBI) rehabilitation, including current methods used with survivors of TBI, therapeutic considerations in light of this population's cognitive, emotional and social difficulties and issues regarding the therapeutic working alliance from both survivor and provider perspectives. Non-systematic clinical review. The literature was intended to be comprehensive to reflect both past and present contributions to the field. To that end, citations were included from seminal and current texts as well as relevant original and review articles from 1985-2012 in PubMed and PubMedCentral online research databases. This article highlights the usefulness of psychotherapy for treatment of psychiatric symptoms in the TBI population, reviews available modalities and offers considerations and suggestions to facilitate and improve treatment. Although challenging and perhaps frustrating at times, psychotherapy with this population can be validly attempted and ultimately very rewarding for both the survivor and therapist. Future research should seek to perform controlled studies to examine therapeutic efficacy and compare gains by injury severity in the hopes of creating best practice guidelines for practitioners.

Healthcare professionals' perspectives on palliative care patients' hope influence communication. However, these perspectives have hardly been examined. To describe healthcare professionals' perspectives on palliative care patients' hope found in the literature. The interpretative synthesis consisted of a quality assessment and thematic analysis of included articles. Literature search of articles between January 1980 and July 2011 in PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO and EMBASE and references of included studies. (palliat* or hospice or terminal* in title/abstract or as subject heading) AND (hope* or hoping or desir* or optimis* in title or as subject heading). Of the 37 articles, 31 articles were of sufficient quality. The majority of these 31 articles described perspectives of nurses or physicians. Three perspectives on hope of palliative care patients were found: (1) realistic perspective - hope as an expectation should be truthful, and healthcare professionals focused on adjusting hope to truth, (2) functional perspective - hope as coping mechanism should help patients, and professionals focused on fostering hope, and (3) narrative perspective - hope as meaning should be valuable for patients, and healthcare professionals focused on interpreting it. Healthcare professionals who are able to work with three perspectives on hope may improve their communication with their palliative care patients, which leads to a better quality of care.

The functional locus of emotional valence in word processing remains an open question. In event-related potentials, emotion has been found to elicit an early posterior negativity (EPN), which is assumed to reflect attention catching by the words' meaning. Previously, the EPN was modulated by word category with verbs exhibiting longer EPN latencies compared with other word categories. Here we examined whether concreteness, a semantic variable, influences emotion processing. Within a lexical decision task for verbs, emotional valence (positive, negative, and neutral) was orthogonally combined with concreteness (concrete and abstract). EPN onset was found already at 250 ms post-stimulus for concrete verbs, whereas it started 50 ms later for abstract verbs. Concreteness effects occurred after the start of main effects of emotion. Thus, the elicitation of the EPN seems to be based on semantic processes, with emotional valence being accessed before other semantic aspects such as concreteness of verbs.

Previously, multi-voxel pattern analysis has been used to decode words referring to concrete object categories. In this study we investigated if single-trial-based brain activity was sufficient to distinguish abstract (e.g., mercy) versus concrete (e.g., barn) concept representations. Multiple neuroimaging studies have identified differences in the processing of abstract versus concrete concepts based on the averaged activity across time by using univariate methods. In this study we used multi-voxel pattern analysis to decode functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data when participants perform a semantic similarity judgment task on triplets of either abstract or concrete words with similar meanings. Classifiers were trained to identify individual trials as concrete or abstract. Cross-validated accuracies for classifying trials as abstract or concrete were significantly above chance (P < 0.05) for all participants. Discriminating information was distributed in multiple brain regions. Moreover, accuracy of identifying single trial data for any one participant as abstract or concrete was also reliably above chance (P < 0.05) when the classifier was trained solely on data from other participants. These results suggest abstract and concrete concepts differ in representations in terms of neural activity patterns during a short period of time across the whole brain.

Abstract The study examined whether complementary therapy using robotic companions as social agents reduced pain and emotional anxiety in pediatric patients. A total of 18 patients, aged 6-16, and 18 parents participated in the study. The study explored whether the use of robotic animals as companion animals could reduce pain and emotional anxiety in patients and their parents. The study identified when robot-assisted therapy was most effective (alone or together with parent). The study hypothesized that engaging in robot-assisted therapy together would enhance parents' perspective taking, thereby triggering strong empathic resonance and parental modeling to bolster the children's coping skills. The robotic companion was more successful in decreasing pain and negative emotional traits when children and parents were engaged together with the robotic companion. The parent's ability to acknowledge the patient's pain accurately through robot-assisted therapy seemed to reduce pain and emotional anxiety.

Primary informal caregivers provide a substantial amount of the care and support for persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD). This review aims to investigate the association between the quality of life (QoL) of primary informal AD caregivers and the level of care that these caregivers provide to persons with AD. Studies involving primary informal caregivers of persons with AD will be included in the review. These studies will be required to focus on the care that caregivers provide for their loved ones. The primary outcome is level or quality of care. The main independent variable is caregiver QoL. In addition to QoL, we will include studies that examine other independent variables that are considered to be important components of QoL. These variables include social support, caregiver burden, caregiver wellbeing, and caregiver depression.We will search Medline-OVID, Embase-OVID, Cochrane Central-OVID, and PsycINFO-OVID from inception onwards. Two raters will independently screen each article using pre-established inclusion/exclusion criteria. Screening will take place at two levels: title and abstract, and full text. Conflicts will be resolved by discussion or by a third reviewer. We will assess the risk of bias of each included study using standardized quality assessment tools for specific types of designs. A narrative synthesis method will be used to describe our findings. Quantitative summary and meta-analysis will be conducted if appropriate. We will employ GRADE to evaluate the strength of the evidence in this review. Results of this systematic review will show whether and how caregiver QoL is related to the level of care that caregivers provide to persons with AD.

Imaging and neuropathology studies have demonstrated significant abnormalities not only in subcortical, but also in cortical regions of patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA). This raises the possibility that cognitive dysfunction may contribute to the clinical spectrum of this disorder to a greater extent than it is currently not widely appreciated. In this cross-sectional multicenter study from the European multiple system atrophy study group ( http://www.emsa-sg.org ), we applied an extensive neuropsychological test battery in a series of 61 clinically diagnosed probable MSA patients. The results demonstrated that general cognitive decline as assessed by MMSE was uncommon (2 out of 61 patients <24). In contrast, frontal lobe-related functions (as measured by FAB) were impaired in 41 % of patients, with abstract reasoning and sustained attention less compromised. This pattern was similar to our control group of 20 patients with Parkinson's disease (matched for disease duration and age at onset). There was no difference in cognitive performance between MSA patients with the parkinsonian versus the cerebellar variant. Behaviourally, MSA patients had greater depression than PD and in the case of MSA of the cerebellar variant significantly lower anxiety. Our data show that cognitive abnormalities are relatively frequent in multiple system atrophy and this involves primarily frontal-executive functions. Their contribution to clinical disability and disease progression needs to be addressed in larger prospective studies.

As humans, we are attuned to the moods and emotions of others. This understanding of emotions enables us to interpret other people's actions on the basis of their emotional displays. However, the development of this capacity is not well understood. Here we show a developmental pattern in 10- and 14-month-old infants' sensitivity to others' emotions and actions. Infants were shown video clips in which happy or angry actors performed a positive action (patting a toy tiger) or a negative action (thumping the toy tiger). Only 14-month-olds, but not 10-month-olds, showed selectively greater sympathetic activity (i.e., pupil dilation) both when an angry actor performed the positive action and when a happy actor performed the negative action, in contrast to the actors performing the actions congruent with their displayed emotions. These results suggest that at the beginning of the second year of life, infants become sensitive to the congruence of other people's emotions and actions, indicating an emerging abstract concept of emotions during infancy. The results are discussed in light of previous research on emotion understanding during infancy.

Abstract Ego state therapy is based on the assumption that personality is composed of parts. When people switch from 1 state to another, they take their ego identification with them, while their levels of affect, intellect, confidence, and skill change. A vaded ego state has become overwhelmed by fear or rejection such that when it becomes executive, it interferes with normal function and emotional stability. The angst these states carry are the root cause of psychological addictions, OCD, panic disorder, PTSD, a sense of unworthiness of love, extreme competitiveness, and much more. The invisible bridge is an induction technique that uses the somatic experience of the vaded state to provide a focus for hypnotic induction and a bridge to the original sensitizing event that vaded the previously normal state. This article contextualizes the vaded state within abnormal psychology and describes the invisible bridge induction.

Two experiments investigated the impact of affect on the working self-concept. Following an affect induction, participants completed the twenty statements test (TST) to assess their working self-concepts. Participants in predominantly happy and angry states used more abstract statements to describe themselves than did participants in predominantly sad and fearful states. Evaluations of the statements that participants generated (Experiment 2) demonstrate that these effects are not the result of (1) participants describing positively and negatively valenced information at different levels of abstraction, or (2) valence-based affective priming. Further, half of the participants in Experiment 2 were led to attribute their affect to the manipulation prior to completing the TST. This manipulation eliminated the influence of affect on the working self-concept. Taken together, these results are consistent with theory and research on the informative functions of affect.

It is generally assumed that abstract concepts are linguistically coded, in line with imaging evidence of greater engagement of the left perisylvian language network for abstract than concrete words (Binder JR, Desai RH, Graves WW, Conant LL. 2009. Where is the semantic system? A critical review and meta-analysis of 120 functional neuroimaging studies. Cerebral Cortex. 19:2767-2796; Wang J, Conder JA, Blitzer DN, Shinkareva SV. 2010. Neural representation of abstract and concrete concepts: A meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies. Hum Brain Map. 31:1459-1468). Recent behavioral work, which used tighter matching of items than previous studies, however, suggests that abstract concepts also entail affective processing to a greater extent than concrete concepts (Kousta S-T, Vigliocco G, Vinson DP, Andrews M, Del Campo E. The representation of abstract words: Why emotion matters. J Exp Psychol Gen. 140:14-34). Here we report a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment that shows greater engagement of the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, an area associated with emotion processing (e.g., Etkin A, Egner T, Peraza DM, Kandel ER, Hirsch J. 2006. Resolving emotional conflict: A role for the rostral anterior cingulate cortex in modulating activity in the amygdala. Neuron. 52:871), in abstract processing. For abstract words, activation in this area was modulated by the hedonic valence (degree of positive or negative affective association) of our items. A correlation analysis of more than 1,400 English words further showed that abstract words, in general, receive higher ratings for affective associations (both valence and arousal) than concrete words, supporting the view that engagement of emotional processing is generally required for processing abstract words. We argue that these results support embodiment views of semantic representation, according to which, whereas concrete concepts are grounded in our sensory-motor experience, affective experience is crucial in the grounding of abstract concepts.

Emotional tone of voice (ETV) is essential for optimal verbal communication. Research has found that the impact of variation in nonlinguistic features of speech on spoken word recognition differs according to a time course. In the current study, we investigated whether intratalker variation in ETV follows the same time course in two long-term repetition priming experiments. We found that intratalker variability in ETVs affected reaction times to spoken words only when processing was relatively slow and difficult, not when processing was relatively fast and easy. These results provide evidence for the use of both abstract and episodic lexical representations for processing within-talker variability in ETV, depending on the time course of spoken word recognition.

Basic mechanisms of the mind, cognition, language, its semantic and emotional mechanisms are modeled using dynamic logic (DL). This cognitively and mathematically motivated model leads to a dual-model hypothesis of language and cognition. The paper emphasizes that abstract cognition cannot evolve without language. The developed model is consistent with a joint emergence of language and cognition from a mirror neuron system. The dual language-cognition model leads to the dual mental hierarchy. The nature of cognition embodiment in the hierarchy is analyzed. Future theoretical and experimental research is discussed.

In Kousta, Vigliocco, Vinson, Andrews, and Del Campo (2011), we presented an embodied theory of semantic representation, which crucially included abstract concepts as internally embodied via affective states. Paivio (2013) took issue with our treatment of dual coding theory, our reliance on data from lexical decision, and our theoretical proposal. Here, we address these different issues and clarify how our findings offer a way to move forward in the investigation of how abstract concepts are represented.

Kousta, Vigliocco, Del Campo, Vinson, and Andrews (2011) questioned the adequacy of dual coding theory and the context availability model as explanations of representational and processing differences between concrete and abstract words. They proposed an alternative approach that focuses on the role of emotional content in the processing of abstract concepts. Their dual coding critique is, however, based on impoverished and, in some respects, incorrect interpretations of the theory and its implications. This response corrects those gaps and misinterpretations and summarizes research findings that show predicted variations in the effects of dual coding variables in different tasks and contexts. Especially emphasized is an empirically supported dual coding theory of emotion that goes beyond the Kousta et al. emphasis on emotion in abstract semantics.

This study reviewed the scientific evidence available on the effects of manipulative techniques on children with respiratory diseases. Three databases (SciELO, PEDro, and MEDLINE) were searched for clinical trials on the effects of manual therapy techniques on children and adolescents with respiratory diseases. The relevant studies were chosen by 2 independent researchers who assessed their abstracts and selected the studies that met the criteria for a complete and structured review. Of the 1147 relevant titles, 103 titles were selected for abstract assessment, and of these, 24 were selected for a full-text review. After critical analysis, 8 studies were included in the review and 16 were excluded for the following reasons: 1 covered only conventional therapy, 7 were not about the studied theme, and 8 included adults. Of the 8 studies included in the present review, 5 consisted of asthmatic children and the others of children with the following conditions: cystic fibrosis, bronchiolitis, recurrent respiratory infections, among others. Only 2 studies did not identify positive results with the use of manual therapy. The other 6 studies found some benefit, specifically in spirometric parameters, immunologic tests, anxiety questionnaire, or level of salivary cortisol. The use of manual techniques on children with respiratory diseases seems to be beneficial. Chiropractic, osteopathic medicine, and massage are the most common interventions. The lack of standardized procedures and limited variety of methods used evidenced the need for more studies on the subject.

Abstract African, Caribbean, and Black (ACB) women are greatly overrepresented in new HIV infections in comparison with Canada's general population. Social and structural factors such as HIV-related stigma, gender discrimination, and racial discrimination converge to increase vulnerability to HIV infection among ACB women by reducing access to HIV prevention services. Stigma and discrimination also present barriers to treatment, care, and support and may contribute to mental health problems. We administered a cross-sectional survey to HIV-positive ACB women (n=173) across Ontario in order to examine the relationships between HIV-related stigma, gender discrimination, racial discrimination, and depression. One-third of participants reported moderate/severe depression scores using the Beck Depression Inventory Fast-Screen guidelines. Hierarchical block regression, moderation, and mediation analyses were conducted to measure associations between independent (HIV-related stigma, gender discrimination, racial discrimination), moderator/mediator (social support, resilient coping), and dependent (depression) variables. Findings included: (1) HIV-related stigma was associated with increased depression; (2) resilient coping was associated with reduced depression but did not moderate the influence of HIV-related stigma on depression; and (3) the effects of HIV-related stigma on depression were partially mediated through resilient coping. HIV-related stigma, gender discrimination, and racial discrimination were significantly correlated with one another and with depression, highlighting the salience of examining multiple intersecting forms of stigma. Generalizability of findings may be limited due to nonrandom sampling. Findings emphasize the importance of multi-component interventions, including building resilient coping skills, mental health promotion and assessment, and stigma reduction programs.

Far from being unthinking energies or irrational impulses that control or push people around, emotions are intricately connected to the way people perceive, understand, and think about the world. As such, emotions are also an inextricable part of people's moral lives. As people go about making moral judgments and decisions, they do not merely apply abstract principles in a detached manner. Their emotions--their loves and sympathies, angers and fears, grief and sadness, guilt and shame--are inseparable from how they make sense of and evaluate their own and others' actions, the way things are, and the ways things ought to be. While this is not to say that emotions have a privileged role in morality, it does mean that emotions cannot be reasonably sidelined from the study of people's moral lives. Thus, an important part of formulating a theory of moral development is to articulate a framework for capturing children's relevant emotional experiences in the context of morally laden events. Such a framework should also help us understand how these sometimes turbulent or bewildering experiences inform, enrich, and change children's thinking about what is right and wrong and about themselves as moral agents. This article considers the research on the relation between emotion and moral thinking, offers a perspective that aims to broaden and elaborate our understanding of the connections between emotion and morality in adolescence, and sets a new agenda for research on this topic.

We propose that asymmetric dependence between individuals (i.e., power) produces asymmetric social distance, with high-power individuals feeling more distant than low-power individuals. From this insight, we articulate predictions about how power affects (a) social comparison, (b) susceptibility to influence, (c) mental state inference and responsiveness, and (d) emotions. We then explain how high-power individuals' greater experienced social distance leads them to engage in more abstract mental representation. This mediating process of construal level generates predictions about how power affects (a) goal selection and pursuit, (b) attention to desirability and feasibility concerns, (c) subjective certainty, (d) value-behavior correspondence, (e) self-control, and (f) person perception. We also reassess the approach/inhibition theory of power, noting limitations both in what it can predict and in the evidence directly supporting its proposed mechanisms. Finally, we discuss moderators and methodological recommendations for the study of power from a social distance perspective.

Recent research has highlighted the adaptive function of memory by showing that imagining being stranded in the grasslands without any survival material and rating words according to their survival value in this situation leads to exceptionally good memory for these words. Studies examining the role of emotions in causing the survival-processing memory advantage have been inconclusive, but some studies have suggested that the effect might be due to negativity or mortality salience. In Experiments 1 and 2, we compared the survival scenario to a control scenario that implied imagining a hopeless situation (floating in outer space with dwindling oxygen supplies) in which only suicide can avoid the agony of choking to death. Although this scenario was perceived as being more negative than the survival scenario, the survival-processing memory advantage persisted. In Experiment 3, thinking about the relevance of words for survival led to better memory for these words than did thinking about the relevance of words for death. This survival advantage was found for concrete, but not for abstract, words. The latter finding is consistent with the assumption that the survival instructions encourage participants to think about many different potential uses of items to aid survival, which may be a particularly efficient form of elaborate encoding. Together, the results suggest that thinking about death is much less effective in promoting recall than is thinking about survival. Therefore, the survival-processing memory advantage cannot be satisfactorily explained by negativity or mortality salience.

While it is well accepted that the left prefrontal cortex plays a critical role in planning and problem-solving tasks, very little is known about the role of the right prefrontal cortex. We addressed this issue by testing five neurological patients with focal lesions to right prefrontal cortex on a real-world travel planning task, and compared their performance with the performance of five neurological patients with focal lesions to left prefrontal cortex, five neurological patients with posterior lesions, and five normal controls. Only patients with lesions to right prefrontal cortex generated substandard solutions compared to normal controls. Examination of the underlying cognitive processes and strategies revealed that patients with lesions to right prefrontal cortex approached the task at an excessively precise, concrete level compared to normal controls, and very early locked themselves into substandard solutions relative to the comparison group. In contrast, the behavior of normal controls was characterized by a judicious interplay of concrete and abstract levels/modes of representations. We suggest that damage to the right prefrontal system impairs the encoding and processing of more abstract and vague representations that facilitate lateral transformations, resulting in premature commitment to precise concrete patterns, and hasty albeit substandard conclusions (because the space of possibilities has not been properly explored).

To systematically summarize the randomized trial evidence regarding the relative effectiveness of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) in patients with depression in receipt of disability benefits in comparison to those not receiving disability benefits. All relevant RCTs from a database of randomized controlled and comparative studies examining the effects of psychotherapy for adult depression (http://www.evidencebasedpsychotherapies.org), electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PSYCINFO, AMED, CINAHL and CENTRAL) to June 2011, and bibliographies of all relevant articles. STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTION: Adult patients with major depression, randomly assigned to CBT versus minimal/no treatment or care-as-usual. Three teams of reviewers, independently and in duplicate, completed title and abstract screening, full text review and data extraction. We performed an individual patient data meta-analysis to summarize data. Of 92 eligible trials, 70 provided author contact information; of these 56 (80%) were successfully contacted to establish if they captured receipt of benefits as a baseline characteristic; 8 recorded benefit status, and 3 enrolled some patients in receipt of benefits, of which 2 provided individual patient data. Including both patients receiving and not receiving disability benefits, 2 trials (227 patients) suggested a possible reduction in depression with CBT, as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory, mean difference [MD] (95% confidence interval [CI]) = -2.61 (-5.28, 0.07), p = 0.06; minimally important difference of 5. The effect appeared larger, though not significantly, in those in receipt of benefits (34 patients) versus not receiving benefits (193 patients); MD (95% CI) = -4.46 (-12.21, 3.30), p = 0.26. Our data does not support the hypothesis that CBT has smaller effects in depressed patients receiving disability benefits versus other patients. Given that the confidence interval is wide, a decreased effect is still possible, though if the difference exists, it is likely to be small.

In psychiatry and psychotherapy, abstract scientific principles need to be exemplified by narrative case reports to gain practical precision. Goethe was one of the most creative writers, productive scientists, and effective statesmen that ever lived. His descriptions of feelings, emotions, and mental states related to anxieties, depressive episodes, dysthymia, and creativity are unique in their phenomenological precision and richness. His life and work can thus serve as an excellent example enhancing our understanding of the relationship between anxiety, depression and creativity. Furthermore, he described (self-)therapeutic strategies that reinforce and refine modern views. Goethe's self-assessments in his works and letters, and the descriptions by others are analyzed under the perspective of current psychiatric classification. His therapeutic techniques and recommendations are compared with cognitive-behavioral, psychodynamic, and existential psychotherapy to amplify modern concepts of psychotherapy. From a scientific perspective, several distinctive depressive episodes can be diagnosed in Goethe's life. They were characterized by extended depressive moods, lack of drive, and loss of interest and self-esteem combined with social retreat. Goethe displayed diffuse and phobic anxieties as well as dysthymia. His (self-)therapeutic strategies were: (a) the systematic use of helping alliances, (b) behavioral techniques, (c) cognitive reflection on meanings and beliefs, (d) psychodynamic and psychoanalytic remembering, repeating, and working through, and (e) existential striving for self-actualization, social commitment, meaning, and creativity. In Goethe's life, creative incubation, illumination, and elaboration appear to have been associated with psychic instability and dysthymia, sometimes with depressive episodes in a clinical sense. On the one hand, his creative work was triggered by anxieties, dysthymia, and depressive moods. On the other hand, his creativity helped him to cope with psychic disorders and suicidal tendencies. Furthermore, Goethe described psychotherapeutic strategies that resemble modern techniques. He integrated relational, behavioral, cognitive, psychodynamic, and existential techniques and attitudes. These modern psychotherapeutic approaches can be exemplified and enhanced by reflecting upon the (self-)therapeutic efforts of one of the most creative persons that have ever lived. Hermeneutics as the art of communication and understanding derived from Goethe's (self-)therapy and creative works can serve as a meta-theoretical framework for the integration of different psychotherapeutic approaches.

Rumination about negative material (e.g., depression symptoms, current problems) contributes to the course and maintenance of depression. More recently, studies have shown that it is not rumination per se, but rather the mode of processing (i.e., abstract/analytical versus concrete/experiential) adopted during rumination that is critical in determining whether rumination has adaptive or maladaptive outcomes. To date, only one study has examined the affective impact of adopting a particular processing mode with positive material; specifically, when recalling a happy memory. The current study extends this line of investigation by examining whether adopting an abstract or concrete processing mode during a positive experience (i.e., a success task) has consequences for subsequent affect. High and low dysphoric participants (N = 136) were randomly allocated to abstract, concrete or no training conditions prior to a success experience. Affect was measured before and after success. We found that neither processing mode condition nor dysphoria status had consequences for the affective impact of success. Our findings are based on an analogue sample. Further research is required to enable generalisation to depression. This study provides some initial indication in a non-clinical sample that processing mode does not have the same differential affective impact when combined with a positive experience (e.g., success) as when combined with a negative experience (e.g., failure).

The purpose of this study was to analyze the effect of the media on individuals' specific language use in relation to a news story on immigration: the influence of the news frame and group cue. Abstraction, complexity of language use, and negative affective language were evaluated. The 523 participants were randomly distributed to each of the four experimental conditions: news frame (crime versus economic contribution) by group cue (geographical origin of the immigrants involved: Moroccans versus Latin Americans). Through content analysis of the ideas and reflections that arose after the participants read the different news stories, using the Linguistic Category Model (LCM; Semin & Fiedler, 1991) to measure abstract language and the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC; Pennebaker, Booth, & Francis, 2007) to analyze complex language and negative affective language, it emerged that abstract language and negative affective language were more frequent in the participants assigned to the news frame on crime. Complex language was more commonly used when the news frame referred to the economic contribution of immigrants. Regression analyses showed the mediating role of attitude to immigration in the effects of news frame on negative affective language. The bootstrap method was used to assess the magnitude of the indirect effect. A significant mediator effect was also found through structural equation modeling. Analyses of covariance showed one interaction between news frame and group cue: Among those who read the news story in a frame linking immigration to crime and Moroccan origin, abstract language was more characteristic. The results are discussed from the theoretical perspective of framing.

The brain stores information in an associative manner so that contextually related entities are connected in memory. Such associative representations mediate the brain's ability to generate predictions about which other objects and events to expect in a given context. Likewise, the brain encodes and is able to rapidly retrieve the affective value of stimuli in our environment. That both contextual associations and affect serve as building blocks of numerous mental functions often makes interpretation of brain activation ambiguous. A critical brain region where such activation has often resulted in equivocal interpretation is the medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC), which has been implicated separately in both affective and associative processing. To characterize its role more unequivocally, we tested whether activity in the mOFC was most directly attributable to affective processing, associative processing, or a combination of both. Subjects performed an object recognition task while undergoing fMRI scans. Objects varied independently in their affective valence and in their degree of association with other objects (associativity). Analyses revealed an overlapping sensitivity whereby the left mOFC responded both to increasingly positive affective value and to stronger associativity. These two properties individually accounted for mOFC response, even after controlling for their interrelationship. The role of the mOFC is either general enough to encompass associations that link stimuli both with reinforcing outcomes and with other stimuli or abstract enough to use both valence and associativity in conjunction to inform downstream processes related to perception and action. These results may further point to a fundamental relationship between associativity and positive affect.

The perception and appreciation of visual symmetry have been studied in several recent EEG experiments. Although symmetry is known to be an important determinant of aesthetic preference, previous studies have concluded that evaluation does not occur spontaneously. These studies also found that symmetrical and random patterns do not differ in terms of early sensory processing, within 200 ms of stimulus onset. We presented participants with symmetrical or random abstract patterns, which they had to classify correctly. Contrary to previous work, we found that N1 amplitude was sensitive to all types of regularity, and P1 was sensitive to rotational symmetry. We also found that activity in the Zygomaticus Major, the facial muscle responsible for smiling, was greater for reflection patterns. However, we were able to reverse this effect by changing the task so that participants had to treat random patterns as the target stimuli. We conclude that participants spontaneously select reflectional symmetry as the target, and positive affective responses automatically follow from successful target detection. This work provides a new account of the neural mechanisms involved in visual symmetry perception.

Abstract The aim of this study was to investigate the discourses used by people with chronic pain. Using qualitative interview data from five Irish people with a variety of chronic pain conditions, Foucauldian discourse analysis was undertaken to identify the discourses in operation in participants' accounts. Three discourses were identified: a moral discourse, a discourse of pain as personal tragedy, and a biomedical discourse. A moral discourse was used to construct participants as moral individuals experiencing real pain who try to accomplish activities and fulfil social roles without burdening others. The discourse of chronic pain as personal tragedy describes the multiple negative consequences of chronic pain including activity, relationship, physical, financial, and emotional consequences, and changed expectations of the future. This discourse bolsters the moral discourse through rejecting any benefits associated with chronic pain. Participants rejected a biomedical discourse by proposing their own explanatory models of pain, resisting psychosocial understandings of pain, criticizing medical professionals and healthcare services, and challenging medical expertise, professionalism, and power. These practices allow participants to reject the patient subject-position with its attendant passivity and requirements for adherence and compliance.

Abstract Depressive symptoms are highly prevalent, underdiagnosed, and undertreated in people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH), and are associated with poorer health outcomes. This randomized controlled trial examined the effects of the HIV/AIDS Symptom Management Manual self-care symptom management strategies compared with a nutrition manual on depressive symptoms in an international sample of PLWH. The sample consisted of a sub-group (N=222) of participants in a larger study symptom management study who reported depressive symptoms. Depressive symptoms of the intervention (n=124) and control (n=98) groups were compared over three months: baseline, one-month, and two-months. Use and effectiveness of specific strategies were examined. Depressive symptom frequency at baseline varied significantly by country (χ (2) 12.9; p=0.04). Within the intervention group there were significant differences across time in depressive symptom frequency [F(2, 207) = 3.27, p=0.05], intensity [F(2, 91) = 4.6, p=0.01], and impact [F(2, 252) = 2.92, p= 0.05), and these were significantly lower at one month but not at two months, suggesting that self-care strategies are effective in reducing depressive symptoms, however effects may be short term. Most used and most effective self-care strategies were distraction techniques and prayer. This study suggests that people living with HIV can be taught and will employ self-care strategies for management of depressive symptoms and that these strategies are effective in reducing these symptoms. Self-care strategies are noninvasive, have no side-effects, and can be readily taught as an adjunct to other forms of treatment. Studies are needed to identify the most effective self-care strategies and quantify optimum dose and frequency of use as a basis for evidence-based practice.

Abstract Women in the U.S. military are technically barred from serving in combat specialties, positions, or units; however, since Operation Desert Storm, women have served in forward positions in greater numbers. This increased involvement in combat zones has resulted in exposures to trauma, injury, and a myriad of environmental hazards associated with modern war. Some of these hazards present new health risks specifically relevant to women who have been deployed to or recently returned from Iraq or Afghanistan or both. To address this evolving public health concern, the Society for Women's Health Research (SWHR) convened a 1-day interdisciplinary scientific conference, with speakers and attendees from civilian, military, and veteran settings. The purpose of the conference was to reveal the state-of-the-science on the health of the female veteran and to focus attention on recent advances in biomedical research related to female veterans' health. The following topics were discussed: mental health (posttraumatic stress disorder [PTSD] and depression), urogenital health, musculoskeletal health, and traumatic brain injury (TBI).

Word comprehension deficits in neurodegenerative conditions are most striking in the syndrome of semantic dementia. Tests of word comprehension typically examine concrete and abstract nonemotion words. Whether or not understanding of words describing emotion concepts (e.g., insulted, fascinated) is also impaired in the dementias has not been systematically investigated. Patients with semantic dementia (SD; n = 8), behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD; n = 8), Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 12), as well as healthy controls (n = 15) completed newly designed emotion word comprehension tasks. Participants also undertook the Graded Synonyms Test, an abstract and concrete nonemotion word comprehension measure. Degradation of knowledge about negative and positive emotion words was most impaired in SD. Correlation analyses in the SD group also showed that knowledge of emotion words correlated with the understanding of abstract nonemotion words. The bvFTD group was impaired only when making associations for emotion words. The AD cohort did not differ from controls on any measures of word comprehension. Impairment in word knowledge is greatest in the syndrome of SD, compared with bvFTD and AD, and includes concrete words, abstract words as well as emotion words. Importantly, word comprehension deficits affect positive and negative emotions.

To demonstrate that sensory and emotional states play an important role in moral processing, previous research has induced physical disgust in various sensory modalities (visual, tactile, gustatory, and olfactory modalities, among others) and measured its effects on moral judgment. To further assess the strength of the connection between embodied states and morality, we investigated whether the directionality of the effect could be reversed by exposing participants to different types of moral events prior to rating the same neutral tasting beverage. As expected, reading about moral transgressions, moral virtues, or control events resulted in inducing gustatory disgust, delight, or neutral taste experiences, respectively. Results are discussed in terms of the relation between embodied cognition and processing abstract conceptual representations.

Complex social emotions involve both abstract cognitions and bodily sensations, and individuals may differ on their relative reliance on these. We hypothesized that individuals' descriptions of their feelings during a semi-structured emotion induction interview would reveal two distinct psychological styles-a more abstract, cognitive style and a more body-based, affective style-and that these would be associated with somatosensory neural activity. We examined 28 participants' open-ended verbal responses to admiration- and compassion-provoking narratives in an interview and BOLD activity to the same narratives during subsequent functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning. Consistent with hypotheses, individuals' affective and cognitive word use were stable across emotion conditions, negatively correlated and unrelated to reported emotion strength in the scanner. Greater use of affective relative to cognitive words predicted more activation in SI, SII, middle anterior cingulate cortex and insula during emotion trials. The results suggest that individuals' verbal descriptions of their feelings reflect differential recruitment of neural regions supporting physical body awareness. Although somatosensation has long been recognized as an important component of emotion processing, these results offer 'proof of concept' that individual differences in open-ended speech reflect different processing styles at the neurobiological level. This study also demonstrates SI involvement during social emotional experience.

Effortful control (EC), the capacity to deliberately suppress a dominant response and perform a subdominant response, rapidly developing in toddler and preschool age, has been shown to be a robust predictor of children's adjustment. Not settled, however, is whether a view of EC as a heterogeneous rather than unidimensional construct may offer advantages in the context of predicting diverse developmental outcomes. This study focused on the potential distinction between "hot" EC function (delay-of-gratification tasks that called for suppressing an emotionally charged response) and more abstract "cool" EC functions (motor inhibition tasks, suppressing-initiating response or Go-No Go tasks, and effortful attention or Stroop-like tasks). Children (N = 100) were observed performing EC tasks at 38 and 52 months. Mothers, fathers, and teachers rated children's behavior problems and academic performance at 67, 80, and 100 months, and children participated in a clinical interview at 100 months. Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) analyses with latent variables produced consistent findings across all informants: Children's scores in "hot" EC tasks, presumably engaging emotion regulation skills, predicted behavior problems but not academic performance, whereas their scores in "cool" EC tasks, specifically those engaging effortful attention, predicted academic performance but not behavior problems. The models of EC as a heterogeneous construct offered some advantages over the unidimensional models. Methodological and clinical implications of the findings are discussed.

The authors examined the evolution of cognitive and emotional responses to terror risks for a nationally representative sample of Americans between late 2001 and late 2002. Respondents' risk judgments changed in ways consistent with their reported personal experiences. However, they did not recognize these changes, producing hindsight bias in memories for their judgments. An intensive debiasing procedure failed to restore a foresightful perspective. A fear-inducing manipulation increased risk estimates, whereas an anger-inducing manipulation reduced them-both in predictions (as previously observed) and in memories and judgments of past risks. Thus, priming emotions shaped not only perceptions of an abstract future but also perceptions of a concrete past. These results suggest how psychological research can help to ensure an informed public.

Emerging research suggests the importance of psychosocial characteristics (e.g., coping and social support) for positive adaptation among youth with behaviorally acquired HIV. However, little is known about how these traits interact with cognitive abilities to impact emotional and behavioral adjustment. This study examined whether coping skills and executive functioning interact in their association with psychological adjustment in HIV-positive youth. Data from Project Adolescents Living with HIV/AIDS (ALPHA), a study to examine psychosocial, behavioral and neuropsychological functioning of youth with behaviorally acquired HIV, were used. Fifty-nine participants, aged 14-23, diagnosed with HIV prior to age 20 and receiving care in one of two HIV clinics in Atlanta or New York City, were recruited, consented and enrolled. Participants completed measures of depressive symptoms (Beck Depression Inventory), conduct disorder (Adolescent Symptom Index), and use of positive and negative coping strategies (Kidcope). The Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) assessed abstract reasoning (categories completed) and cognitive inflexibility (perseverative errors). In this sample of HIV-positive youth, depressive symptoms were best predicted by an interactive combination of negative coping skills and poor neuropsychological functioning. Neuropsychological functioning (cognitive inflexibility) and negative coping skills were directly associated with conduct disorder symptoms. Results highlight the importance of including neuropsychological assessment in the evaluation of HIV-positive youth, particularly those with emotional or behavioral problems.

The ontogeny of human empathy is better understood with reference to the evolutionary history of the social brain. Empathy has deep evolutionary, biochemical, and neurological underpinnings. Even the most advanced forms of empathy in humans are built on more basic forms and remain connected to core mechanisms associated with affective communication, social attachment, and parental care. In this paper, we argue that it is essential to consider empathy within a neurodevelopmental framework that recognizes both the continuities and changes in socioemotional understanding from infancy to adulthood. We bring together neuroevolutionary and developmental perspectives on the information processing and neural mechanisms underlying empathy and caring, and show that they are grounded in multiple interacting systems and processes. Moreover, empathy in humans is assisted by other abstract and domain-general high-level cognitive abilities such as executive functions, mentalizing and language, as well as the ability to differentiate another's mental states from one's own, which expand the range of behaviors that can be driven by empathy.

Myrdal (1944) described the "American dilemma" as the conflict between abstract national values ("liberty and justice for all") and more concrete, everyday prejudices. We leveraged construal-level theory to empirically test Myrdal's proposition that construal level (abstract vs. concrete) can influence prejudice. We measured individual differences in construal level (Study 1) and manipulated construal level (Studies 2 and 3); across these three studies, we found that adopting an abstract mind-set heightened conservatives' tolerance for groups that are perceived as deviating from Judeo-Christian values (gay men, lesbians, Muslims, and atheists). Among participants who adopted a concrete mind-set, conservatives were less tolerant of these nonnormative groups than liberals were, but political orientation did not have a reliable effect on tolerance among participants who adopted an abstract mind-set. Attitudes toward racial out-groups and dominant groups (e.g., Whites, Christians) were unaffected by construal level. In Study 3, we found that the effect of abstract thinking on prejudice was mediated by an increase in concerns about fairness.

Retrospective subjective well-being (SWB) refers to self-reported satisfaction and emotional experience over the past few weeks or months. Two studies investigated the mechanisms linking daily experiences to retrospective SWB. Participants reported events each day for 21 days (Study 1) or twice a week for two months (Study 2). The emotional intensity of each event was rated: (1) when it had recently occurred (proximal intensity); and (2) at the end of the event-reporting period (distal intensity). Both sets of ratings were then aggregated across events and used to predict retrospective SWB at the end of the study. Path analyses showed that proximal intensity predicted retrospective SWB whereas distal intensity did not. The effect remained even after controlling for trait happiness and neuroticism. These results suggest that daily experiences influence retrospective SWB primarily through abstract representations of the past few weeks or months (as measured by aggregated proximal intensity ratings) rather than the explicit recollection of individual events during the same period (as measured by aggregated distal intensity ratings). Retrospective SWB, in turn, mediated the effect of daily experiences on global SWB (i.e., self-reported satisfaction and emotional experiences in general).

Institutional review boards assume that questionnaires asking about "sensitive" topics (e.g., trauma and sex) pose more risk to respondents than seemingly innocuous measures (e.g., cognitive tests). We tested this assumption by asking 504 undergraduates to answer either surveys on trauma and sex or measures of cognitive ability, such as tests of vocabulary and abstract reasoning. Participants rated their positive and negative emotional reactions and the perceived benefits and mental costs of participating; they also compared their study-related distress with the distress arising from normal life stressors. Participants who completed trauma and sex surveys, relative to participants who completed cognitive measures, rated the study as resulting in higher positive affect and as having greater perceived benefits and fewer mental costs. Although participants who completed trauma and sex surveys reported slightly higher levels of negative emotion than did participants who completed cognitive measures, averages were very low for both groups, and outliers were rare. All participants rated each normal life stressor as more distressing than participating in the study. These results suggest that trauma and sex surveys pose minimal risk.

Estimates of the prevalence of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) range from 0.6 to 1.0 per cent of the general population. Among the characteristic traits of ASD are qualitative impairments in social reciprocity and in abstract imagination. Not surprisingly, these traits can affect the personal religion of ASD patients, in the same manner as religious background does. To determine to what extent the religiousness of religious patients is associated with autistic traits and religious background. Dutch adults attending a Protestant mental healthcare institution as outpatients were asked to complete the 'Questionnaire God Image' (QGI) and the 'Autism Quotient' (AQNL). In this cross-sectional study various aspects of the God image were related to autistic traits and religious background. The more that respondents reported autistic traits, the greater was their fear of God and the less positive were their feelings. Respondents who were strict Calvinists experienced greater fear of God than did other respondents. Treatment of religious patients with asd needs to take into account these patients' greater fear of God and their less positive feelings. Those patients who had had a strict Calvinist upbringing had a more pronounced fear of God.

Comments on the original article, "Nonrational processes in ethical decision making" by M. D. Rogerson et al (see record 2011-19198-001). Among the many insightful points made by Rogerson, Gottlieb, Handelsman, Knapp, and Younggren (October 2011) regarding nonrational processes in ethical decision making, one deserves further explication: Many of psychologists' ethical decisions lead to actions done to someone. Unfortunately, frameworks and models of ethical decision making frequently neglect this fact by implying that the decisions happen in the abstract, but in truth, these decisions often affect a specific recipient. Importantly, the characteristics of that specific recipient, especially as perceived by the psychologist, can have a powerful impact on the process of ethical decision making (Caughron et al., 2011). It would be wise to add such a hypothetical to the list of specific questions that Rogerson et al recommended psychologists ask themselves: Would I make the same ethical decision if the person(s) toward whom the decision is directed had different characteristics?

According to cognitive models, negative post-event processing rumination is a key maintaining factor in social anxiety disorder (SAD). Analogue research has supported the differentiation of self-focus into different modes of self-focused attention with distinct effects on rumination in depression and social anxiety. The purpose of this study was to replicate these effects with a sample of clients with SAD (N = 12) using (a) an experimental, cross-over design and (b) an evaluation situation (impromptu speech) prior to manipulation. Processing an identical list of symptoms, half of a sample was asked to successively adopt an analytic (abstract, evaluative) and an experiential (concrete, process-focused) self-focus; the other half employed the modes in the reversed order. Effects were assessed with a thought-listing (TL) procedure. As predicted, the two modes of self-focused attention affected cognitions differently; participants in the experiential condition showed a tendency for a decreased proportion of negative thoughts, whereas those in the analytical condition reported a decreased proportion of neutral thoughts. No difference was shown on positive cognitions. Furthermore, the participants' self-evaluation following the speech predicted their degree of subsequent negative thinking. After self-focus inductions, however, this effect was only seen in those participants who started by receiving the analytical self-focus induction. The results support previous findings that the analytical and the experiential self-focus modes affect cognitions differently, and that experiential processing may have beneficial effects on rumination in SAD. However, results need to be replicated in a larger sample.

The Temporal Experience of Pleasure Scale (TEPS) is a measure specifically designed to capture the anticipatory and consummatory facets of pleasure. However, few studies have examined the structure of the measure in non-Western samples. The current study aimed to evaluate the factor structure and psychometric properties of the TEPS in a Chinese sample. We administered the Chinese version of the TEPS to 2275 healthy Chinese college students. They were randomly split into two sub-samples. The first sub-sample was used for exploratory factor analysis (EFA) to examine the structure of the TEPS in a Chinese sample. The second sub-sample was used as a validation sample for the identified structure from the EFA and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was adopted. Results of the EFA suggested a four-factor model (consummatory contextual, consummatory abstract, anticipatory contextual, and anticipatory abstract factors) instead of the original two-factor model (consummatory and anticipatory factors) ascertained from Western samples in the United States. The CFA results confirmed these results in the second sub-sample. Internal consistency and test-retest stability of the TEPS factors were good. The TEPS has four factors among Chinese participants. Possible reasons for cultural difference and potential applications of the TEPS for cross-cultural comparison are discussed.

Attention to stimuli associated with a rewarding outcome may be mediated by the incentive motivational properties that the stimulus acquires during conditioning. Other theories of attention state that the prediction error (the discrepancy between the expected and the actual outcome) during conditioning guides attention; once the outcome is fully predicted, attention should be abolished for the conditioned stimulus. The current study examined which of these mechanisms is dominant in conditioning when the outcome is highly rewarding. Allocation of attention to stimuli associated with cigarettes (the rewarding outcome) was tested in 16 smokers, who underwent a classical conditioning paradigm, where abstract visual stimuli were paired with a tobacco outcome. Stimuli were associated with 100% (stimulus A), 50% (stimulus B), or 0% (stimulus C) probability of receiving tobacco. Attention was measured using an eye-tracker device, and the appetitive value of the stimuli was measured with subjective pleasantness ratings during the conditioning process. Dwell time bias (duration of eye gaze) was greatest overall for the A stimulus, and increased over conditioning. Attention to stimulus A was dependent on the ratings of pleasantness that the stimulus evoked, and on the desire to smoke. These findings appear to support the theory that attention for conditioned stimuli is dominated by the incentive motivational qualities of the outcome they predict, and implicate a role for attention in the maintenance of addictive behaviours like smoking.

According to the moral licensing literature, moral self-perceptions induce compensatory behavior: People who feel moral act less prosocially than those who feel immoral. Conversely, work on moral identity indicates that moral self-perceptions motivate behavioral consistency: People who feel moral act more prosocially than those who feel less so. In three studies, the authors reconcile these propositions by demonstrating the moderating role of conceptual abstraction. In Study 1, participants who recalled performing recent (concrete) moral or immoral behavior demonstrated compensatory behavior, whereas participants who considered temporally distant (abstract) moral behavior demonstrated behavioral consistency. Study 2 confirmed that this effect was unique to moral self-perceptions. Study 3 manipulated whether participants recalled moral or immoral actions concretely or abstractly, and replicated the moderation pattern with willingness to donate real money to charity. Together, these findings suggest that concrete moral self-perceptions activate self-regulatory behavior, and abstract moral self-perceptions activate identity concerns.

Suicide has been related to affective disorders. We hypothesized that suicide could be associated with cognitive inhibition deficit. Our study aimed to systematically review all published articles that examined the relation between cognitive inhibition deficit and suicidal behaviours (that is, suicide attempt or suicidal ideation) in patients with affective disorders. We performed an English and French MEDLINE and EMBASE search, ranging from 1970 to 2010, indexed under the MeSH terms of suicide, neuropsychology, neuropsychological tests, and executive function, combined with the following title and abstract terms: neuropsychological functions, executive functioning, and executive performance. Among the 164 selected studies, 9 observational studies met the selection criteria and were included in the final analysis. The number of participants ranged from 57 to 244 (28% to 66%, respectively, were men). Executive dysfunction was more frequently found among patients with suicidal behaviours. In particular, higher cognitive inhibition deficit was observed in depressed subjects with suicide behaviours, compared with depressed subjects without any suicidal behaviour. The results of the meta-analysis showed a higher impairment in inhibition score, according to the number of perseverations in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (Cohen d = 0.68) than in inhibition according to the time needed to perform the Trail-Making Test part B (d = 0.01) among patients with suicidal behaviour, compared with patients with no suicidal behaviour. This systematic review and meta-analysis showed a positive association between cognitive inhibition deficit and suicide attempts in patients with affective disorders. Future research should examine whether cognitive inhibition deficit precedes the suicidal behaviour.

Events coupled with an emotional context seem to be better retained than non-emotional events. The aim of our study was to investigate whether an emotional context could influence the neural substrates of memory associations with novel portrait art stimuli. In the current prospective fMRI study, we have investigated for one specific visual art form (modern artistic portraits with a high degree of abstraction) whether memory is influenced by priming with emotional facial pictures. In total forty healthy female volunteers in the same age range were recruited for the study. Twenty of these women participated in a prospective brain imaging memory paradigm and were asked to memorize a series of similar looking, but different portraits. After randomization, for twelve participants (Group 1), a third of the portraits was emotionally primed with approach-related pictures (smiling baby faces), a third with withdrawal-related pictures (baby faces with severe dermatological conditions), and another third with neutral images. Group 2 consisted of eight participants and they were not primed. Then, during an fMRI session 2h later, these portraits were viewed in random order intermixed with a set of new (previously unseen) ones, and the participants had to decide for each portrait whether or not they had already been seen. In a separate experiment, a different sample of twenty healthy females (Group 3) rated their mood after being exposed to the same art stimuli, without priming. The portraits did not evoke significant mood changes by themselves, supporting their initial neutral emotional character (Group 3). The correct decision on whether the portraits were Familiar of Unfamiliar led to similar neuronal activations in brain areas implicated in visual and attention processing for both groups (Groups 1 and 2). In contrast, whereas primed participants showed significant higher neuronal activities in the left midline superior frontal cortex (Brodmann area (BA) 6), unprimed volunteers displayed higher right medial frontal cortical (BA 10) activities. Furthermore, specifically in Group 1, correct retrieval of negatively primed portraits evoked increased neuronal activity in the left medial orbitofrontal cortex (BA 11) and in the right (posterior) insula, suggesting enhanced stress-related responses to the memory of withdrawal-related primed modern artistic portraits in this group. Our prospective memory data in healthy females indicate that, to reach a correct retrieval decision, different midline anterior neuronal networks are recruited for portraits that were emotionally primed than for the unprimed ones. Importantly, our results also suggest that the negative emotional context leads to the formation of associations that are reactivated during memory retrieval processes of the initially neutral art portraits. When correctly recognized, the portraits evoke neuronal activities consistent with the withdrawal-related character of the emotional visual stimuli with which they have been associated. Although our results show that abstract portrait art can be associated with emotional primes this doesn't mean that this effect is specific for art images.

Miscarriage is the premature expulsion of an embryo or fetus from the uterus up to 23 weeks of pregnancy and weighing up to 500 grams. International studies using diagnostic tools have identified that some women suffer from anxiety, depression and grief after miscarriage. Psychological follow-up might detect those women who are at risk of psychological complications following miscarriage. This review is necessary as the evidence is equivocal on the benefits of psychological follow-up after miscarriage. Whether follow-up affects the psychological well being of women following miscarriage. We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 December 2011), reference lists of all retrieved papers and contacted professional and lay organisations to obtain any ongoing trials or unpublished data. Randomised controlled trials only. All potential trials for eligibility according to the criteria specified in the protocol by screening the titles and abstracts, retrieving full reports of potentially relevant trials for assessment. All review authors extracted data and checked for accuracy. No studies were published in duplicate. When data were missing and only the abstract was available, we attempted to contact the trial authors. We resolved any disagreement through discussion. Six studies involving 1001 women were included. Three trials compared one counselling session with no counselling. There was no significant difference in psychological well being including anxiety, grief, depression avoidance and self-blame. One trial compared three one-hour counselling sessions with no counselling at four and 12 months. Some subscales showed statistical significance in favour of counselling and some in favour of no counselling. The results for two trials were given in narrative form as data were unavailable for meta-analyses. One trial compared multiple interventions. The other trial compared two counselling sessions with no counselling. Neither study favoured counselling. Evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that psychological support such as counselling is effective post-miscarriage. Further trials should be good quality, adequately-powered using standardised interventions and outcome measures at specific time points. The economic implications and women's satisfaction with psychological follow-up should also be explored in any future study.

Recent neuroimaging developments allow a better in vivo characterization of the structural and functional connectivity of the human cerebellum. Ultrahigh fields, which considerably increase spatial resolution, enable to visualize deep cerebellar nuclei and cerebello-cortical sublayers. Tractography reconstructs afferent and efferent pathway of the cerebellum. Resting-state functional connectivity individualizes the prewired, parallel close-looped sensorimotor, cognitive, and affective networks passing through the cerebellum. These results are un agreement with activation maps obtained during stimulation functional neuroimaging or inferred from neurological deficits due to cerebellar lesions. Therefore, neuroimaging supports the hypothesis that cerebellum constitutes a general modulator involved in optimizing mental performance and computing internal models. However, the great challenges will remain to unravel: (1) the functional role of red and bulbar olivary nuclei, (2) the information processing in the cerebellar microcircuitry, and (3) the abstract computation performed by the cerebellum and shared by sensorimotor, cognitive, and affective domains.

Pancreatic cancer is a rapidly fatal disease with palliation often serving as the main goal of treatment. The end of life is often marked by severe symptoms and poor quality of life (QoL). Several studies presented at the 2012 ASCO Gastrointestinal Cancers Symposium addressed the importance of symptom identification and management for patients with pancreatic cancer: 1) a study evaluating the correlation between patient-reported symptoms, disease burden and treatment duration in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer undergoing gemcitabine-based chemotherapy (Abstract #370); 2) a Japanese study found that patients without worsening of pain or sleep symptoms at one month of chemotherapy had higher frequency of disease control (Abstract #195); and 3) a study showed that fear of cancer recurrence is a substantial problem following resection and should be targeted (Abstract #289). The authors summarize the findings and discuss the importance of QoL in these patients. The results of these studies may facilitate in identifying symptom changes as predictive markers, and improving care and QoL for patients with this devastating disease.

This paper reviews the claimed pivotal role of emotional intelligence (EI) in well-being and health. Specifically, we examine the utility of EI in predicting health and well-being and point to future research issues that the field might profitably explore. EI is predictive of various indicators of well-being, as well as both physical and psychological health, but existing research has methodological limitations including over-reliance on self-report measures, and neglect of overlap between EI and personality measures. Interventions focusing on emotional perception, understanding and expression, and emotion regulation, seem potentially important for improving health and well-being, but research on EI has not yet made a major contribution to therapeutic practice. Future research, using a finer-grained approach to measurement of both predictors and criteria might most usefully focus on intra- and inter-personal processes that may mediate effects of EI on health. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_8JZX1Uc4k.

One of the most difficult dilemmas in relationship science and couple therapy concerns the interaction between sexual desire and love. As two mental states of intense longing for union with others, sexual desire and love are, in fact, often difficult to disentangle from one another. The present review aims to help understand the differences and similarities between these two mental states using a comprehensive statistical meta-analyses of all functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies on sexual desire and love. Systematic retrospective review of pertinent neuroimaging literature. Review of published literature on fMRI studies illustrating brain regions associated with love and sexual desire to date. Sexual desire and love not only show differences but also recruit a striking common set of brain areas that mediate somatosensory integration, reward expectation, and social cognition. More precisely, a significant posterior-to-anterior insular pattern appears to track sexual desire and love progressively. This specific pattern of activation suggests that love builds upon a neural circuit for emotions and pleasure, adding regions associated with reward expectancy, habit formation, and feature detection. In particular, the shared activation within the insula, with a posterior-to-anterior pattern, from desire to love, suggests that love grows out of and is a more abstract representation of the pleasant sensorimotor experiences that characterize desire. From these results, one may consider desire and love on a spectrum that evolves from integrative representations of affective visceral sensations to an ultimate representation of feelings incorporating mechanisms of reward expectancy and habit learning.

Infrahumanization theory has claimed that groups tend to infrahumanize, and thus denigrate, each other irrespective of group status. However, research on infrahumanization has mainly addressed status in the context of national, ethnic, and regional divisions. The present studies tested the effect of group status in infrahumanization by employing occupational groups of varied status, both in abstract (blue-collar vs. white-collar workers) and specific terms (lawyers vs. shopkeepers, and high school teachers vs. university faculty members and primary school teachers). The results showed that only relatively higher status groups always attributed uniquely human emotions more to their in-group than to lower status out-groups. In contrast, lower status groups showed no bias in attributions of uniquely human emotions, or were biased in favour of the higher status out-group. The discussion of these results points to the role of consensus in the distribution of social value amongst groups of asymmetric status.

Excessive rumination following traumatic or highly distressing experiences has been proposed to be an important maintaining factor of posttraumatic stress symptoms. However, not all forms of repetitive thinking about a negative event appear to be dysfunctional. It has been suggested that the abstractness of thinking is critical for its symptom-maintaining effects. The present study tested this hypothesis using an experimental analogue design with participants who had experienced a recent negative life event. After a short symptom provocation task, participants (N=57) wrote about their negative experience in either an abstract-evaluative or a concrete-experiential way. Intrusive memories were assessed during the session and in the first 36 h after the session. In line with the expectations, participants in the abstract-evaluative condition showed less reduction of intrusive memories during the experimental session than those in the concrete-experiential condition, and showed a slower recovery in the 36 h following the session. An analogue design was used. Therefore, results need to be replicated with survivors of traumatic events following DSM-IV. Taken together, the results support the idea that abstractness of thinking is responsible for the dysfunctional effects of rumination about a highly distressing or traumatic event.

Sickle cell disease comprises a group of genetic blood disorders. It occurs when the sickle haemoglobin gene is inherited from both parents. The effects of the condition are: varying degrees of anaemia which, if severe, can reduce mobility; a tendency for small blood capillaries to become blocked causing pain in muscle and bone commonly known as 'crises'; damage to major organs such as the spleen, liver, kidneys, and lungs; and increased vulnerability to severe infections. There are both medical and non-medical complications, and treatment is usually symptomatic and palliative in nature. Psychological interventions for individuals with sickle cell disease might complement current medical treatment, and studies of their efficacy have yielded encouraging results. To examine the evidence that psychological interventions improve the ability of people with sickle cell disease to cope with their condition. We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and the Internet, handsearches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Date of the most recent search of the Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 28 July 2011. All randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing psychological interventions with no (psychological) intervention in people with sickle cell disease. Both authors independently extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of the included studies. Eleven studies were identified in the searches and six of these were eligible for inclusion in the review. Four studies, involving 223 participants, provided data for analysis. One study showed that cognitive behaviour therapy significantly reduced the affective component of pain, mean difference -3.00 (95% confidence interval -4.63 to -1.37), but not the sensory component, mean difference 0.00 (95% confidence interval -9.39 to 9.39). One study of family psycho-education was not associated with a reduction in depression. Another study evaluating cognitive behavioural therapy had inconclusive results for the assessment of coping strategies, and showed no difference between groups assessed on health service utilisation. Evidence for the efficacy of psychological therapies in sickle cell disease is currently limited. This systematic review has clearly identified the need for well-designed, adequately-powered, multicentre randomised controlled trials assessing the effectiveness of specific interventions in sickle cell disease.

Depressive disorders affect approximately 18.8 million patients annually. Influenza, a preventable infectious disease, leads to 50 million new cases each year and up to 40,000 deaths annually. It is believed that depressive symptoms somatize and can lead to decreased immune function. This hypothesis has little or no in vivo evidence. The purpose of this study was to investigate evidence in the literature of a correlation between depression and infection with influenza. The databases PsycINFO, MEDLINE, IPA, and EMBASE were searched with search terms and keywords for "influenza" and "depression" or any derivation. Articles included in the search were required to be in English and conducted in human subjects. Our search identified 799 unique articles that related depression and influenza. After an abstract review, full article evaluation, and inclusion/exclusion criteria were applied, 10 articles remained. Of the 10 articles evaluated, 70% of the papers concluded no difference in hemagluttinin levels between depressed and non-depressed patients. We believe this systematic review is the first to investigate the correlation of influenza infection and depression. Our search resulted in little scientific evidence and, therefore, the risk of influenza in patients with depression cannot be determined.

A complex system process oriented approach, in other words a constructivistic postrationalist cognitive one to psychology and to psychopathology, stresses the close interdependency among processes as evolution, emotion, language and conscience. During evolution, emotions, whose biological roots we share with superior primates, should be specialized and refined. Along this process should become necessary a more and more abstract way of scaffolding the enormous quantity of data a brain could manage. Cognitive abilities, rooted in the emotional quality of experience, allow - during the phylogenetic development - more and more complex patterns of reflexivity until to the necessary ability of recognizing other's intention and consequently of lying. Language, abstract ability usefull to give increasing experiential data scaffolding, probably coming from motor skills development, brings at the same time the possibility, for a human knowing system, of self-consciousness: to do this it's owed to detach from itself, that is experience a deep sense of loneliness. Here it is that the progressive cognitive skills development is linked to the possibility of lying and of self-deception as long as the acquiring of advanced levels of selfconsciousness.

Which emotions underlie our positive experiences of art? Although recent evidence from neuroscience suggests that emotions play a critical role in art perception, no research to date has explored the extent to which specific emotional states affect aesthetic experiences or whether general physiological arousal is sufficient. Participants were assigned to one of five conditions-sitting normally, engaging in 15 or 30 jumping jacks, or viewing a happy or scary video-prior to rating abstract works of art. Only the fear condition resulted in significantly more positive judgments about the art. These striking findings provide the first evidence that fear uniquely inspires positively valenced aesthetic judgments. The results are discussed in the context of embodied cognition.

Abstract The aim of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the Problematic Mobile Phone Use Scale (PMPUS) for Turkish Adolescents. The psychometric properties of PMPUS were tested in two separate sample groups that consisted of 950 Turkish high school students. The first sample group (n=309) was used to determine the factor structure of the scale. The second sample group (n=461) was used to test data conformity with the identified structure, discriminant validity and concurrent scale validity, internal consistency reliability calculations, and item statistics calculations. The results of exploratory factor analyses indicated that the scale had three factors: interference with negative effect, compulsion/persistence, and withdrawal/tolerance. The results showed that item and construct reliability values yielded satisfactory rates in general for the three-factor construct. On the other hand, the average variance extracted value remained below the scale value for three subscales. The scores for the scale significantly correlated with depression and loneliness. In addition, the discriminant validity value was above the scale in all sub-dimensions except one. Based on these data, the reliability of the PMPUS scale appears to be satisfactory and provides good internal consistency. Therefore, with limited exception, the PMPUS was found to be reliable and valid in the context of Turkish adolescents.

Disgust is characterized by a remarkably diverse set of stimulus triggers, ranging from extremely concrete (bad tastes and disease vectors) to extremely abstract (moral transgressions and those who commit them). This diversity may reflect an expansion of the role of disgust over evolutionary time, from an origin in defending the body against toxicity and disease, through defense against other threats to biological fitness (e.g., incest), to involvement in the selection of suitable interaction partners, by motivating the rejection of individuals who violate social and moral norms. The anterior insula, and to a lesser extent the basal ganglia, are implicated in toxicity- and disease-related forms of disgust, although we argue that insular activation is not exclusive to disgust. It remains unclear whether moral disgust is associated with insular activity. Disgust offers cognitive neuroscientists a unique opportunity to study how an evolutionarily ancient response rooted in the chemical senses has expanded into a uniquely human social cognitive domain; many interesting research avenues remain to be explored.

Adult humans recognize that even unfamiliar speech can communicate information between third parties, demonstrating an ability to separate communicative function from linguistic content. We examined whether 12-month-old infants understand that speech can communicate before they understand the meanings of specific words. Specifically, we test the understanding that speech permits the transfer of information about a Communicator's target object to a Recipient. Initially, the Communicator selectively grasped one of two objects. In test, the Communicator could no longer reach the objects. She then turned to the Recipient and produced speech (a nonsense word) or non-speech (coughing). Infants looked longer when the Recipient selected the non-target than the target object when the Communicator had produced speech but not coughing (Experiment 1). Looking time patterns differed from the speech condition when the Recipient rather than the Communicator produced the speech (Experiment 2), and when the Communicator produced a positive emotional vocalization (Experiment 3), but did not differ when the Recipient had previously received information about the target by watching the Communicator's selective grasping (Experiment 4). Thus infants understand the information-transferring properties of speech and recognize some of the conditions under which others' information states can be updated. These results suggest that infants possess an abstract understanding of the communicative function of speech, providing an important potential mechanism for language and knowledge acquisition.

People inevitably face moments of uncertainty as they await feedback regarding self-relevant life outcomes, but they react to this uncertainty with varying amounts of anxiety. Self-construal abstractness (SCA) may be one key predictor of anxiety in the face of uncertain outcomes. SCA refers to a broad self-concept based on generalizations rather than a detailed, low-level self-concept that is based on specific behaviors or events. The current studies examined SCA and anxiety over self-relevant uncertainty. Studies 1 and 2 measured naturally occurring levels of SCA and found that reflecting on an abstract self-construal buffered people from anxiety when upcoming evaluative feedback was highly self-relevant (Study 1) and immediate (Study 2). Study 3 revealed that SCA is equally effective as a buffer against anxiety when manipulated with a subtle prime. The potential for SCA to serve as the target for anxiety-reduction interventions in uncertain situations is discussed.

The aim of this study was to investigate abnormal perceptual experiences in schizophrenia, in particular the feeling of strangeness, which is commonly found in patients' self-reports. The experimental design included auditory complex stimuli within 2 theoretical frameworks based on "sensory gating deficit" and "aberrant salience," inspired from conventional perceptual scales. A specific sound corpus was designed with environmental (meaningful) and abstract (meaningless) sounds. The authors compared sound evaluations on 3 perceptual dimensions (bizarre, familiar, and invasive) and 2 emotional dimensions (frightening and reassuring) between 20 patients with schizophrenia (SCZ) and 20 control participants (CTL). The perceptual judgment was rated on independent linear scales for each sound. In addition, the conditioning-testing P50 paradigm was conducted on 10 SCZ and 10 CTL. Both behavioral and electrophysiological data confirmed the authors' expectations according to the 2 previous theoretical frameworks and showed that abnormal perceptual experiences in SCZ consisted of perceiving meaningful sounds in a distorted manner and as flooding/inundating but also in perceiving meaningless sounds as things that become meaningful by assigning them some significance. In addition, the use of independent scales to each perceptual dimension highlighted an unexpected ambivalence on familiarity and bizarreness in SCZ compatible with the explanation of semantic process impairment. The authors further suggested that this ambivalence might be due to a conflicting coactivation of 2 types of listening, that is, every day and musical (or acousmatic) listening.

Both news media and entertainment fiction may lead to short-term and enduring fright reactions. Even TV programs, movies and news made for children may trigger fear. Preoperational children (3 to 7 years of age) are most afraid of fantasy characters, transformations and interpersonal violence. Operational children (8 to 11 years) are more afraid of abstract ideas and imagined implications regarding their own risk. Pediatricians must include media in their history taking and beware of ensuing fear, phobias, sleep and behavior problems. Parents can play a vital role in preventing exposure to or mediating the effects of frightening media. Hospitals must have a pediatric media exposure policy. Media use can have immediate and enduring fear effects that affect many children and that are far from trivial.

During conversation, interactants draw on their shared communicative context and history ("common ground") to help decide what to say next, tailoring utterances based on their knowledge of what the listener knows. The use of common ground draws on an understanding of the thoughts and feelings of others to create and update a model of what is known by the other person, employing cognitive processes such as theory of mind. We tested the hypothesis that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), a neural region involved in processing and interpreting social and emotional information, would be critical for the development and use of common ground. We studied seven patients with bilateral vmPFC damage and seven age-, sex-, and education-matched healthy comparison participants, each interacting with a familiar partner. Across 24 trials, participants verbally directed their partners how to arrange a set of 12 abstract tangram cards. Our hypothesis was not supported: the vmPFC and healthy comparison groups showed similar development and use of common ground, evident in reduction in time and words used to describe the cards, similar increases in the use of definite references (e.g., the horse), and comparable use of verbal play (playful language) in their interactions. These results argue against the idea that the vmPFC is critical for the development and use of common ground in social interaction. We propose that a cognitive and neuroanatomical bifurcation in theory of mind processes may explain this outcome. The vmPFC may be important for affective theory of mind (the ability to understand another's feelings); however, the development and use of common ground in social interaction may place higher demands on the ability to understand another's knowledge, or cognitive theory of mind, which may not require the vmPFC.

Central neurocytoma accounts for 0.1% of primary brain tumor that often occurs in young adults. Surgery is the main treatment for central neurocytoma and the rate of 5-year survival reaches up to over 90%. This study aimed to assess the effect of transcortical frontal approach to surgical resection of central neurocytoma on emotion and cognitive function 5 years after surgery. Telephone following-up visits were used in this study. By means of neuropsychological testing, assayed emotion, memory and abstract thinking ability of 18 patients undergoing central neurocytoma resection by transcortical frontal approach for 5 years or more, with another 21 normal cases as control group were enrolled. The data were analyzed statistically by paired t test with SPSS11.5. Patients whose central neurocytoma was removed by transcortical frontal approach were not affected on calculating ability 5 years after operation while ability of memory declined sharply (P = 0.000), the older, the more sharply (P = 0.036). Ability of abstract thinking was significantly reduced (P = 0.000), the older, the more significantly as well (P = 0.012); additionally, anxiety and depression occurred in patients rather more than those of control group (P = 0.000), especially cognitive impairment. Transcortical frontal approach for surgical resection of central neurocytoma has certain long-term influence on patients' life quality, vulnerable to anxiety, depression and cognitive impairment, the severity of which was correlated to age. Therefore, improving surgical approach will be of value for better long-term life quality of patients.

Recalling positive autobiographical memories is a powerful emotion regulation strategy that can be used to repair low mood and alleviate negative affect. Unlike healthy individuals, those with current or past depression do not experience an improvement in mood as a consequence of recalling positive memories. We tested whether differences in processing mode might account for this impairment. Following mood induction procedures designed to ensure equivalence of mood state, depressed (n = 35) and recovered depressed (n = 33) participants were instructed to recall a positive memory and focus on it while adopting either an abstract or a concrete mode of processing. Participants in the abstract processing condition experienced no change in mood, while those in the concrete processing condition showed improved mood after memory recall. This research illustrates that the process by which positive autobiographical memories are recalled is important in determining their emotional impact and suggests that psychological interventions for depression may be improved by explicitly targeting processing mode.

Research in healthy controls has found that mood influences cognitive processing via level of action identification: happy moods are associated with global and abstract processing; sad moods are associated with local and concrete processing. However, this pattern seems inconsistent with the high level of abstract processing observed in depressed patients, leading Watkins (2008, 2010) to hypothesise that the association between mood and level of goal/action identification is impaired in depression. We tested this hypothesis by measuring level of identification on the Behavioural Identification Form after happy and sad mood inductions in never-depressed controls and currently depressed patients. Participants used increasingly concrete action identifications as they became sadder and less happy, but this effect was moderated by depression status. Consistent with Watkins' (2008) hypothesis, increases in sad mood and decreases in happiness were associated with shifts towards the use of more concrete action identifications in never-depressed individuals, but not in depressed patients. These findings suggest that the putatively adaptive association between mood and level of identification is impaired in major depression.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a chronic genetic disease that leads to the accumulation of thick mucus in multiple organ systems, leading to chronic lung infection and affecting the body's ability to absorb nutrients necessary for growth and development. This cross-sectional, correlational study examined the potential effects of CF on students' psychosocial and academic development. Forty adolescents with CF completed a battery of neuropsychological and psychosocial measures. Their school records were reviewed to abstract information about standardized achievement testing results and grade point average (GPA). Academic outcomes were hypothesized to be associated with (1) self-efficacy, (2) disease and school-specific coping strategies, (3) attitude to school, and (4) depression. Cognitive and academic scores were within the normal range, and self-efficacy had the strongest association with standardized cognitive and academic measures and high school grades. School absences were associated with GPA, but not standardized test scores. Adolescents with CF require supports in school that foster their sense of self-efficacy and accommodations that address the learning time lost from extended health-related absences.

Depression, a common mental health problem, is projected to be the second leading cause of disability for adults by year 2020. Mindfulness-based interventions (MFIs) have been integrated into therapeutic work on depression, but limited systematic reviews reported their efficacy on heterogeneous groups of mental disorders. This meta-analysis aimed to examine the efficacy of the MFIs on depressive symptoms in people with various mental disorders. A meta-analysis of experimental and quasi-experimental studies was undertaken. Multiple search strategies were undertaken to identify published and unpublished studies conducted between 1995 and 2011. Electronic databases used were Scopus, CINAHL, PubMed, ScienceDirect, PsyINFO, Dissertation Abstract International, Web of Science Index, Controlled-trial.com, and clinicaltrials.gov. Data were extracted and appraised by two reviewers. For each study, the Quality Rating Index (QRI) and Code Sheet for Randomized Controlled Trials (CS-RCT) were used to assess methodological quality and extract relevant data respectively. Data were analysed and synthesized using PASW statistic 17.0 and Comprehensive Meta Analyses Software 2.0. Thirty-nine studies conducted in ten countries were included and 105 effect sizes were calculated. Most studies utilised single group pretest-posttest quasi-experimental design, convenience sampling, and self-reported questionnaires. Between-group comparisons indicated that MFIs are superior to standard care in reducing depressive symptoms and preventing relapse with effect sizes ranging from 0.11 to 1.65. Exposure-based cognitive therapy (d=2.09) appeared to be the most efficacious intervention, followed by mindfulness-based stress reduction programme (d=1.92), acceptance-based behaviour therapy (d=1.33), and stress less with mindfulness (d=1.31). Effect sizes were significantly associated with the length of intervention sessions but not related to methodological quality of studies. The mindfulness-based interventions are efficacious for alleviating depressive symptoms in adults with mental disorders. The interventions could be used in conjunction with other treatments in clinical settings.

Mood-dependent memory was investigated in a sample of 28 individuals, with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder I but not during acute episodes, and 30 non-clinical controls by using the word lists from Wechsler Memory Scale--Third Edition and abstract inkblot recognition. Positive or negative mood induction procedures were used prior to and after the stimuli were presented. After either the same or contrasting high or low mood inductions, participants attempted to recall the word list and performed an inkblot recognition task. Bipolar patients were significantly better at the inkblot recognition in the same mood state, showing mood-dependent memory. No differences were found in the verbal recall task. This study paves the way for further investigation into memory differences of this sort in mood disorders.

So-called 'brain-training' programs are a huge commercial success. However, empirical evidence regarding their effectiveness and generalizability remains equivocal. This study investigated whether brain-training (working memory [WM] training) improves cognitive functions beyond the training task (transfer effects), especially regarding the control of emotional material since it constitutes much of the information we process daily. Forty-five participants received WM training using either emotional or neutral material, or an undemanding control task. WM training, regardless of training material, led to transfer gains on another WM task and in fluid intelligence. However, only brain-training with emotional material yielded transferable gains to improved control over affective information on an emotional Stroop task. The data support the reality of transferable benefits of demanding WM training and suggest that transferable gains across to affective contexts require training with material congruent to those contexts. These findings constitute preliminary evidence that intensive cognitively demanding brain-training can improve not only our abstract problem-solving capacity, but also ameliorate cognitive control processes (e.g. decision-making) in our daily emotive environments.

A recently proposed dual process theory of moral decision-making posits that utilitarian reasoning (approving of harmful actions that maximize good consequences) is the result of cognitive control of emotion. This suggests that deficits in emotional awareness will contribute to increased utilitarianism. The present study explored the relative contributions of the different facets of alexithymia and the closely related constructs of emotional intelligence and mood awareness to utilitarian decision making. Participants (N = 86) completed the Toronto Alexithymia Scale, Trait Meta Mood Scale, the Mood Awareness Scale, and a series of high-conflict, personal moral dilemmas validated by Greene et al. (2008). A brief neuropsychological battery was also administered to assess the possible confounds of verbal reasoning and abstract thinking ability. Principal components analysis revealed two latent factors-clarity of emotion and attention to emotion-which cut across all three meta-emotion instruments. Of these, low clarity of emotion-reflecting difficulty in reasoning thoughtfully about one's emotions-predicted utilitarian outcomes and provided unique variance beyond that of verbal and abstract reasoning abilities. Results are discussed in the context of individual differences in emotion regulation.

To enhance the learner's competence with information about the Chronic Care Model (CCM) with respect to dealing with the biopsychosocial aspects of diabetes. This continuing education activity is intended for physicians and nurses with an interest in skin and wound care. After participating in this educational activity, the participant should be better able to: Biopsychosocial illnesses, including diabetes, must be approached by clinicians who understand that not only are the biological factors, including the cause of the illness and the toll it takes on the body, important considerations, but that also psychological components experienced by the patient dealing with diabetes and social components are factors to be considered.

Can children's handedness influence how they represent abstract concepts like kindness and intelligence? Here we show that from an early age, right-handers associate rightward space more strongly with positive ideas and leftward space with negative ideas, but the opposite is true for left-handers. In one experiment, children indicated where on a diagram a preferred toy and a dispreferred toy should go. Right-handers tended to assign the preferred toy to a box on the right and the dispreferred toy to a box on the left. Left-handers showed the opposite pattern. In a second experiment, children judged which of two cartoon animals looked smarter (or dumber) or nicer (or meaner). Right-handers attributed more positive qualities to animals on the right, but left-handers to animals on the left. These contrasting associations between space and valence cannot be explained by exposure to language or cultural conventions, which consistently link right with good. Rather, right- and left-handers implicitly associated positive valence more strongly with the side of space on which they can act more fluently with their dominant hands. Results support the body-specificity hypothesis (Casasanto, 2009), showing that children with different kinds of bodies think differently in corresponding ways.

Sensorimotor areas activate to action- and object-related words, but their role in abstract meaning processing is still debated. Abstract emotion words denoting body internal states are a critical test case because they lack referential links to objects. If actions expressing emotion are crucial for learning correspondences between word forms and emotions, emotion word-evoked activity should emerge in motor brain systems controlling the face and arms, which typically express emotions. To test this hypothesis, we recruited 18 native speakers and used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare brain activation evoked by abstract emotion words to that by face- and arm-related action words. In addition to limbic regions, emotion words indeed sparked precentral cortex, including body-part-specific areas activated somatotopically by face words or arm words. Control items, including hash mark strings and animal words, failed to activate precentral areas. We conclude that, similar to their role in action word processing, activation of frontocentral motor systems in the dorsal stream reflects the semantic binding of sign and meaning of abstract words denoting emotions and possibly other body internal states.

We sustain that the structure of affect elicited by music is largely dependent on dynamic temporal patterns in low-level music structural parameters. In support of this claim, we have previously provided evidence that spatiotemporal dynamics in psychoacoustic features resonate with two psychological dimensions of affect underlying judgments of subjective feelings: arousal and valence. In this article we extend our previous investigations in two aspects. First, we focus on the emotions experienced rather than perceived while listening to music. Second, we evaluate the extent to which peripheral feedback in music can account for the predicted emotional responses, that is, the role of physiological arousal in determining the intensity and valence of musical emotions. Akin to our previous findings, we will show that a significant part of the listeners' reported emotions can be predicted from a set of six psychoacoustic features--loudness, pitch level, pitch contour, tempo, texture, and sharpness. Furthermore, the accuracy of those predictions is improved with the inclusion of physiological cues--skin conductance and heart rate. The interdisciplinary work presented here provides a new methodology to the field of music and emotion research based on the combination of computational and experimental work, which aid the analysis of the emotional responses to music, while offering a platform for the abstract representation of those complex relationships. Future developments may aid specific areas, such as, psychology and music therapy, by providing coherent descriptions of the emotional effects of specific music stimuli.

Emotions seem to play a critical role in moral judgment. However, the way in which emotions exert their influence on moral judgments is still poorly understood. This study proposes a novel theoretical approach suggesting that emotions influence moral judgments based on their motivational dimension. We tested the effects of two types of induced emotions with equal valence but with different motivational implications (anger and disgust), and four types of moral scenarios (disgust-related, impersonal, personal, and beliefs) on moral judgments. We hypothesized and found that approach motivation associated with anger would make moral judgments more permissible, while disgust, associated with withdrawal motivation, would make them less permissible. Moreover, these effects varied as a function of the type of scenario: the induced emotions only affected moral judgments concerning impersonal and personal scenarios, while we observed no effects for the other scenarios. These findings suggest that emotions can play an important role in moral judgment, but that their specific effects depend upon the type of emotion induced. Furthermore, induced emotion effects were more prevalent for moral decisions in personal and impersonal scenarios, possibly because these require the performance of an action rather than making an abstract judgment. We conclude that the effects of induced emotions on moral judgments can be predicted by taking their motivational dimension into account. This finding has important implications for moral psychology, as it points toward a previously overlooked mechanism linking emotions to moral judgments.

Previous findings implicated rumination (recurrent dwelling on abstract concerns) in elevated psychological distress in palliative patients. We hypothesised that reducing rumination may be important in addressing psychological distress in palliative care. This study tested the prediction that a brief guided self-help technique targeting abstract rumination would reduce psychological distress in palliative patients. A randomised controlled trial evaluated 4 weeks of guided self-help that involved patients practising thinking more concretely by recalling specific and vivid memories of when they were completely absorbed in an activity or scene. Participants completed a combination of standardised questionnaires to assess anxiety, depression, and quality of life. Palliative care patients who were reporting clinically significant psychological distress, whilst also physically well enough to take part in the trial were recruited from hospices in Devon and Somerset and randomised to either a treatment condition (n = 19) receiving 4 weeks of guided self-help, or a waiting-list control condition (n = 15) receiving treatment as usual. As predicted, the palliative patients receiving the intervention reported significantly greater reductions in anxiety than the waiting-list controls (F(1,23) = 20.55, p < 0.001, partial η (2) = 0.47). However, no significant effect was found on depression or quality of life. The findings suggest that a brief guided self-help intervention based on concreteness training can be effective in addressing anxiety in palliative care.

A number of risk factors for developing a psychotic disorder have been investigated in the 'ultra high risk' (UHR) population, including neurocognitive abilities, social functioning and, more recently, social cognition. We aimed to review the literature on social cognition in the UHR population. Literature was restricted to English articles and identified using Pubmed, Medline, PsychINFO and CINAHLplus, as well as the reference lists of published studies and reviews. Search terms included social cognition, theory of mind, emotion recognition, attributional style, social knowledge, social perception, 'at risk mental state', psychosis prodrome 'clinical high risk' and 'ultra high risk'. Inclusion criteria were an outcome measure of a social cognition task and an UHR population defined by a structured validated instrument. Seven original research articles met the inclusion criteria, one of which was a conference abstract. One of the two studies that assessed theory of mind, two of the four studies that assessed emotion recognition and both the two studies that assessed social perception/knowledge found significant deficits in UHR patients. The single study that assessed attributional bias also reported differences in UHR patients compared with healthy controls. There is limited published literature on social cognitive performance in the UHR population. Despite this, deficits in certain social cognitive abilities do appear to be present, but further research with more reliable cross-cultural measures is needed. The characterization of social cognitive deficits in the UHR populations may aid in the identification of potential markers for development of a subsequent psychotic disorder, as well as targets for early intervention.

Abstract The dynamics of the family of psychologist and philosopher William James and his brother, the novelist Henry James, are explored. The need for love, the hate and rage, the guilt, and the terror arising from their father's four-year confinement in bed as an adolescent due to an accident in which he lost his right leg, haunted him and his children and yet were the source of his and, indirectly, his sons' fierce determination to lead meaningful lives and to share with the world their extraordinary insights into the complicated functioning of the mind.

ABSTRACT Increased age has been found to be associated with differences in affect and personality that have been interpreted in terms of better emotional regulation and increased maturity. However, these findings have largely been based on self-report data, and the primary goal of the current research was to investigate the hypothesis that age-related differences in affect and in certain desirable personality traits might, at least partially, reflect age differences in social desirability. As expected, increased age was associated with lower levels of negative affect and Neuroticism and higher levels of positive affect, life satisfaction, Agreeableness, and Conscientiousness, and scores on the social desirability scale were positively related to age and to desirable self-report characteristics but negatively related to undesirable self-report characteristics. Importantly, controlling for the variance in the social desirability measure resulted in less positive age trends in both types of self-report measures.

This article disputes the stylometric attribution of an anonymous English 1821 translation of Goethe's German verse drama Faust to the poet an critic Samuel Taylor Coleridge. The translation was compared to four known Coleridgean dramas, two of which were translations from German. Evidence challenging Coleridge's authorship came from words used proportionally more often by Coleridge, words used proportionally more often by the unknown translator, differential employment of parallel word forms ("O" and "hath" for Coleridge, "oh" and "has" for the translator), and differences in the undertones of the two vocabularies, as measured by the Dictionary of Affect in Language (Coleridge's undertones were less pleasant and more abstract). Some problems with the stylometry of the challenged attribution to Coleridge are noted.

This study examined how one's own posture influences the perception of another's posture in a task with implicit affective information. In 2 experiments, participants assumed or viewed a body posture and then compared that posture with a viewed posture. They were not told that postures varied in affective valence: positive, negative, neutral-abstract, or neutral-meaningful. Posture affect influenced both accuracy and response time measures of posture discrimination. Participants were slower and less accurate for targets that matched an assumed posture, but only for affective postures. This pattern did not hold for matching affectively neutral postures (meaningful or not), nonmatching postures, or for purely visual comparisons. These results are consistent with both cognitive embodiment theories postulating that personal body posture influences the perception of other's postures and emotional embodiment theories postulating sensorimotor and emotional simulation processes that create correspondences between one's own and another's emotional postures. Nonetheless, these findings differ from studies finding facilitation for explicit emotional judgments of affective congruence. People use different information depending on task requirements. The assumption of an affective posture may activate simulations of personal emotional experiences that may, in turn, serve to differentiate personal posture perception from ostensibly the same posture in another person.

Oncologic diseases currently have a high prevalence and present as one of the leading causes of death in the western world. Clinical depression and emotional distress are often the outcome of the threat these diseases present to individual existence. Although its precise determination is hampered by methodological problems, up to 50% of cancer patients may become clinically depressed and experience intense personal distress. We performed a literature review on screening and evaluating clinical depression in cancer patients (risk factors, instruments and strategies) and its treatment (psychotherapy, drug treatment and care management). Non-systematic literature review. The search was performed on Pubmed with the following keywords in title/abstract fields: cancer, oncology, depression, psychiatry, morbidity, screening, treatment, psychotherapy, psychiatric status rating scales, with no time restriction. Articles written in Portuguese, English and Castilian were included. A cross-reference search yielded additional included articles. Several risk factors for an increased likelihood of clinical depression in oncologic diseases have been identified which, together with screening strategies, including validated scales such as Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), may enhance our ability to detect cases. While not having, for the moment, the highest possible evidence for effectiveness from randomized trials, the treatment strategies for clinical depression in this population should be available and make use of multidisciplinary interventions, including psychopharmacological and psychotherapeutic options. The need for health care workers to spend adequate time with patients is underscored. This not only enhances their ability to detect and treat depression cases but also allows for an empathic and understanding relationship, validating the existence and suffering of the patient.

In most families with familial cancers, mutations have not been demonstrated; thus, healthy individuals cannot be tested for mutation status. As a consequence, many persons at risk of familial cancer live with an unknown, but presumably high, risk of developing cancer. The aim of this study was to describe individuals' perceptions of living with an increased risk of colorectal and gynaecologic cancer where the gene mutation is unknown. Interviews were conducted with 30 individuals with familial colorectal cancer. These persons have no known mutation and therefore should be considered presumptive carriers. In connection with the interviews, all participants were offered to take part in a surveillance programme consisting of a colonoscopy and gynaecological examinations. The interview transcriptions were analysed by the use of qualitative content analysis. Two themes emerged from the analyses: first, living under a threat with two subthemes, threat awareness and distancing oneself from the threat. The second theme, living with uncertainty, was divided into four subthemes: influencing one's family, being on the safe side, facing emotions evoked by examinations and trust and disappointment to the medical services. These persons live with a lifelong uncertainty with a varying intensity depending on what happens throughout the life trajectory. They have no diagnosis or patient group to relate to; therefore, the entire situation is often perceived as abstract. Thus, providing information and counselling needs to be more deeply elucidated, and we need to address both situational and existential ways of uncertainty. This will, however, require professionals of all disciplines to understand the meaning of uncertainty and help ensure that its adverse effects are decreased with adequate nursing interventions.

This paper presents a French battery designed to assess emotional and sociocognitive abilities in neurological patients in clinical practice. The first part of this battery includes subtests assessing emotions: a recognition task of primary facial emotions, a discrimination task of facial emotions, a task of expressive intensity judgment, a task of gender identification, a recognition task of musical emotions. The second part intends to assess some sociocognitive abilities, that is mainly theory of mind (attribution tasks of mental states to others: false believe tasks of first and second order, faux-pas task) and social norms (moral/conventional distinction task, social situations task) but also abstract language and humour. We present a general description of the battery with special attention to specific methodological constraints for the assessment of neurological patients. After a brief introduction to moral and conventional judgments (definition and current theoretical basis), the French version of the social norm task from RJR Blair (Blair and Cipolotti, 2000) is developed. The relevance of these tasks in frontal variant of frontotemporal dementia (fvFTD is illustrated by the report of the results of a study conducted in 18 patients by the Cambridge group and by the personal study of a patient with early stage of vfFTD. The relevance of the diagnostic of sociocognitive impairment in neurological patients is discussed.

The idea that language mediates our thoughts and enables abstract cognition has been a key idea in socio-cultural psychology. However, it is not clear what mechanisms support this process of abstraction. Peirce argued that one mechanism by which language enables abstract thought is hypostatic abstraction, the process through which a predicate (e.g., dark) turns into an object (e.g., darkness). By using novel computational tools we tested Peirce's idea. Analysis of the data provides empirical support for Peirce's mechanism and evidence of the way the use of signs enables abstraction. These conclusions are supported by the in-depth analysis of two case studies concerning the abstraction of sweet and dark. The paper concludes by discussing the findings from a broad and integrative theoretical perspective and by pointing to computational cultural psychology as a promising perspective for addressing long-lasting questions of the field.

Using the framework of social representations theory--more precisely the concepts of anchoring and objectification--this article analyses the emotions on which the media reporting on climate change draws. Emotions are thereby regarded as discursive phenomena. A qualitative analysis of two series in Swedish media on climate change, one in a tabloid newspaper and one in public service television news, is presented showing how the verbal and visual representations are attached to emotions of fear, hope, guilt, compassion and nostalgia. It is further argued that emotional representations of climate change may on the one hand enhance public engagement in the issue, but on the other hand may draw attention away from climate change as the abstract, long-term phenomenon of a statistical character that it is.

Abstract The current study examined specific emotional, behavioral, and cognitive variables that may distinguish obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) from generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), social phobia (SoP), and separation anxiety disorder (SAD) in youth. Youth with OCD (n=26) and other anxiety disorders (ADs; n=31), aged 7-12 years (56.1% males), and their parents participated. The study compared the two anxious groups on levels of emotional, behavioral, and cognitive functioning, as well as impairment associated with the disorder. Results indicated that in comparison to youth with GAD, SoP, or SAD, youth with OCD were found to have poorer emotion regulation skills, as well as greater oppositionality, cognitive problems/inattention, and parent impairment associated with the disorder. The findings suggest that there are unique characteristics of OCD that may differentiate this disorder from other ADs in youth. Potential clinical implications and directions for future research are discussed.

Abstract This study investigated the anxiolytic-like effects of 4-O-methylhonokiol, a neolignan compound of Magnolia officinalis, by using the experimental paradigms of anxiety and compared the results with those of a known anxiolytic, diazepam. A single treatment with 4-O-methylhonokiol (0.1, 0.2, and 0.5 mg/kg, p.o.) or treatment for 7 days (0.5 mg/kg in drinking water) increased the percentage of time spent in the open arms and the number of open arms entries in the elevated plus-maze test. However, the 4-O-methylhonokiol-increased percentage of time spent in the open arm was abolished by treatment with flumazenil, a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist (10 mg/kg). 4-O-Methylhonokiol also increased the number of head dips in the hole-board test, but decreased locomotor activity. Molecular experiments revealed that the α1-subunit of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptors was overexpressed in the cortex of brains of mice after treatment with 4-O-methylhonokiol for 7 days. In addition, 4-O-methylhonokiol also increased chloride influx in cultured cortical cells. It is concluded that 4-O-methylhonokiol may have anxiolytic-like effects and that these effects may be mediated by GABAergic transmission with the increase of Cl(-) channel opening.

Anticipation and experience of root canal associated pain is a major source of fear for patients and a very important concern of dentists. Pretreatment, treatment, and posttreatment pain is anticipated, experienced, remembered, and shared by patients. The purpose was to determine the influence of root canal treatment on pain prevalence and severity and estimate the prevalence and severity of pretreatment, treatment, and posttreatment pain in patients receiving root canal treatment. Defined searching of MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane, and PsycINFO databases identified 5,517 articles. Systematic review, including title scanning, abstract scanning, full-text review, and quality rating, provided 72 studies for meta-analysis. L'Abbe plots were used to evaluate the influence of root canal treatment on pain prevalence and severity. Pretreatment, treatment, and posttreatment pain prevalence and severity data were analyzed. L'Abbe plots revealed that pain prevalence and severity decreased substantially after treatment. Mean pretreatment, 24-hour posttreatment, and 1-week posttreatment pain prevalences with associated standard deviations were 81 (28%), 40 (24%), and 11 (14%), respectively. Pretreatment, 24-hour posttreatment, and 1-week posttreatment pain severities, on a 100-point scale, were 54 (24%), 24 (12%), and 5 (5%), respectively. Supplemental injections were frequently required (60 [24%]). Pretreatment root canal-associated pain prevalence was high but dropped moderately within 1 day and substantially to minimal levels in 7 days. Pretreatment root canal-associated pain severity was moderate, dropped substantially within 1 day of treatment, and continued to drop to minimal levels in 7 days. Supplemental anesthesia was often required.

Patients with a life-limiting illness, such as cancer, and their carers experience elevated psychological distress. However, the psychological mechanisms underpinning distress in palliative care have been little studied. Recent theories predict that individuals who experience increased uncertainty in the context of ongoing difficulties, such as palliative patients and their carers, will (a) think more abstractly; (b) ruminate more; and (c) be more distressed. Palliative patients (n = 36, 90% with cancer), their carers (n = 29), and age-matched controls (n = 30) completed standardized questionnaires to assess anxiety, depression, and rumination, and open-ended interviews to identify their concerns and idiosyncratic levels of rumination. Concerns were analyzed linguistically for level of abstraction. As predicted, (i) palliative patients and carers reported significantly more uncertainty, rumination, and abstract thinking than controls; (ii) uncertainty, abstractness, and rumination were associated with psychological distress. Abstraction and rumination are psychological mechanism potentially involved in increased psychological distress in palliative care.

The present study examined the occurrence and content of auditory hallucinatory experiences in 41 non-clinical participants scoring high or low on the Oxford-Liverpool Inventory of Feelings and Experiences (brief version; OLIFE-B) measure of schizotypy. Participants listened to 10 1-min recordings of white noise, some of which contained embedded concrete or abstract words, and were asked to record the words that they had heard. High scorers on the unusual experiences (UE) scale of the OLIFE-B reported hearing more words, not actually present, relative to low scorers on that measure. In addition, high UE scorers showed a bias toward making hallucinatory reports of an abstract type over a concrete type. These results suggest a bias toward more auditory hallucinatory reports in high scorers in schizotypy, and particularly to those of an abstract type.

It has been widely documented that fluency (ease of information processing) increases positive evaluation. We proposed and demonstrated in three studies that this was not the case when people construed objects abstractly rather than concretely. Specifically, we found that priming people to think abstractly mitigated the effect of fluency on subsequent evaluative judgments (Studies 1 and 2). However, when feelings such as fluency were understood to be signals of value, fluency increased liking in people primed to think abstractly (Study 3). These results suggest that abstract thinking helps distinguish central decision inputs from less important incidental inputs, whereas concrete thinking does not make such a distinction. Thus, abstract thinking can augment or attenuate fluency effects, depending on whether fluency is considered important or incidental information, respectively.

Abstract Background. The gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) is highly expressed in the limbic system, where it importantly regulates emotional functions and in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, where it is central for the photic resetting of the circadian clock. Mice lacking GRPR presented with deficient light-induced phase shift in activity as well altered emotional learning and amygdala function. The effect of GRPR deletion on depression-like behavior and its molecular signature in the amygdala, however, has not yet been evaluated. Methods. GRPR knock-out mice (GRPR-KO) were tested in the forced-swim test and the sucrose preference test for depression-like behavior. Gene expression in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala was evaluated by micorarray analysis subsequent to laser-capture microdissection-assisted extraction of mRNA. The expression of selected genes was confirmed by RT-PCR. Results. GRPR-KO mice were found to present with increased depression-like behavior. Microarray analysis revealed down-regulation of several glucocorticoid-responsive genes in the basolateral amygdala. Acute administration of dexamethasone reversed the behavioral phenotype and alterations in gene expression. Discussion. We propose that deletion of GRPR leads to the induction of depression-like behavior which is paralleled by dysregulation of amygdala gene expression, potentially resulting from deficient light-induced corticosterone release in GRPR-KO.

A number of studies have addressed the development and testing of tools for measuring cancer-related distress. Except for studies of diagnostic validity, knowledge on the effect of screening for psychological distress on psychological well-being is limited. We aimed to describe and critically discuss the findings of randomized trials of the effect of screening and to identify components necessary for future studies of the effectiveness of screening programmes. A search was made of the Embase/Medline and Web of Knowledge abstract databases from inception to September 2010. Our inclusion criterion was randomized controlled trials concerning the effect of screening for psychological distress on psychological outcomes. We compared the randomized trials on the following aspects: design and methods, setting and sample, screening and intervention, effects on psychological distress, staff utilization of screening results, possible confounding factors and other methodological limitations. Of the seven identified randomized trials of the effect of screening for psychological distress, three showed an effect on psychological well-being, one showed an effect only among patients depressed at baseline, and three studies showed no effect. Several of the trials had methodological weaknesses and they were heterogeneous in design and content making direct comparisons difficult. Future randomized trials are needed to examine comparative validity of different screening approaches and to evaluate the benefits of screening linked with associated treatment. Trials should include distress as a patient outcome, use appropriate samples, include a detailed, theory-based distress management plan, offer staff training and ideally track staff and patient use of subsequent interventions. Provisional work suggests that screening for psychological distress holds promise and is often clinically valuable, but it is too early to conclude definitively that psychological screening itself affects the psychological well-being of cancer patients.

Abstract Background. The diagnosis and treatment of cancer may cause clinically significant and persistent psychological morbidity. The objective of this study was to determine the short-term effect of a six week exercise intervention on anxiety and depression in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy (The 'Body & Cancer' trial). Methods. Two hundred and nine self-referred patients (52 males, 157 females, mean age 47 years) were randomised into an intervention group and a waiting-list control group. Anxiety and depression was measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Results. At baseline, 23.5% and 11.5% of the population scored >8 on the HADS and were classified as suspicious or definite cases of anxiety and depression, respectively. Adjusted for baseline score, disease and demographic covariates the estimated intervention effect showed improvement at six weeks for depression of -0.7 points (95% confidence interval [CI] -1.27 to -0.14, p = 0.0153). No significant effect was seen on anxiety. Further subanalysis, including only suspicious or definite cases of depression, resulted in an estimated intervention effect of -2.53 points (95% CI, -0.64 to -0.42, p = 0.021). Conclusion. Anti-depressant effects could be caused by exercise in self-referred cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Dedicated trials and follow-up studies are needed to clarify the optimal duration and content of exercise interventions to meet the needs of clinically depressive or anxious patients.

Music, an abstract stimulus, can arouse feelings of euphoria and craving, similar to tangible rewards that involve the striatal dopaminergic system. Using the neurochemical specificity of [(11)C]raclopride positron emission tomography scanning, combined with psychophysiological measures of autonomic nervous system activity, we found endogenous dopamine release in the striatum at peak emotional arousal during music listening. To examine the time course of dopamine release, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging with the same stimuli and listeners, and found a functional dissociation: the caudate was more involved during the anticipation and the nucleus accumbens was more involved during the experience of peak emotional responses to music. These results indicate that intense pleasure in response to music can lead to dopamine release in the striatal system. Notably, the anticipation of an abstract reward can result in dopamine release in an anatomical pathway distinct from that associated with the peak pleasure itself. Our results help to explain why music is of such high value across all human societies.

The concept of "emotional muscle" arose from clinical work in relation to therapeutic impasse and as a criterion for moving toward a "good goodbye. "It was applied to work at Allen Creek Preschool, a non-profit psychoanalytic school in Ann Arbor, Michigan, dedicated to the emotional and cognitive growth of families and their children from 0-6 years of age. The idea of building emotional muscle makes immediate intuitive sense to parents, children, teachers, therapists, and patients. It is a bridge between the abstract concepts and findings of developmental researchers and the everyday practicalities of family life, school, and the consulting room. The concept of "emotional muscle" promotes multidisciplinary understanding of personality structure and growth and contributes to the use of multi-modal therapeutic techniques.

Although much is known about the representation and processing of concrete concepts, knowledge of what abstract semantics might be is severely limited. In this article we first address the adequacy of the 2 dominant accounts (dual coding theory and the context availability model) put forward in order to explain representation and processing differences between concrete and abstract words. We find that neither proposal can account for experimental findings and that this is, at least partly, because abstract words are considered to be unrelated to experiential information in both of these accounts. We then address a particular type of experiential information, emotional content, and demonstrate that it plays a crucial role in the processing and representation of abstract concepts: Statistically, abstract words are more emotionally valenced than are concrete words, and this accounts for a residual latency advantage for abstract words, when variables such as imageability (a construct derived from dual coding theory) and rated context availability are held constant. We conclude with a discussion of our novel hypothesis for embodied abstract semantics.

How does mood influence people's willingness to disclose intimate information about themselves? Based on recent affect-cognition theories and research on interpersonal behavior, 3 experiments predicted and found that people in a positive mood disclosed more intimate, more varied, and more abstract information about themselves. In contrast, people in a negative mood were more attentive to the behavior of others and reciprocated self-disclosure from their partners more accurately. This effect was obtained in hypothetical situations (Experiments 1 and 2) and in realistic computer-mediated interactions as well (Experiment 3). Experiments 2 and 3 confirmed that mood effects on self-disclosure were mediated by information processing style. The role of affect in information processing and relationship behaviors in particular is discussed, and the implications of these findings for everyday interaction strategies and for contemporary affect-cognition theorizing are considered.

Jealousy sits high atop of a list comprised of the most human emotional experiences, although its nature, rationale, and origin are poorly understood. In the past decade, a series of neurological case reports and neuroimaging findings have been particularly helpful in piecing together jealousy's puzzle. In order to understand and quantify the neurological factors that might be important in jealousy, we reviewed the current literature in this specific field. We made an electronic search, and examined all literature with at least an English abstract, through Mars 2010. The search identified a total of 20 neurological patients, who experienced jealousy in relation with a neurological disorder; and 22 healthy individuals, who experienced jealousy under experimental neuroimaging settings. Most of the clinical cases of reported jealousy after a stroke had delusional-type jealousy. Right hemispheric stroke was the most frequently reported neurological disorder in these patients, although there was a wide range of more diffuse neurological disorders that may be reported to be associated with different other types of jealousy. This is in line with recent neuroimaging data on false beliefs, moral judgments, and intention [mis]understanding. Together the present findings provide physicians and psychologists with a potential for high impact in understanding the neural mechanisms and treatment of jealousy. By combining findings from case reports and neuroimaging data, the present article allows for a novel and unique perspective, and explores new directions into the neurological jealous mind.

Faces are multidimensional stimuli that convey information for complex social and emotional functions. Separate neural systems have been implicated in the recognition of facial identity (mainly extrastriate visual cortex) and emotional expression (limbic areas and the superior temporal sulcus). Working-memory (WM) studies with faces have shown different but partly overlapping activation patterns in comparison to spatial WM in parietal and prefrontal areas. However, little is known about the neural representations of the different facial dimensions during WM. In the present study 22 subjects performed a face-identity or face-emotion WM task at different load levels during functional magnetic resonance imaging. We found a fronto-parietal-visual WM-network for both tasks during maintenance, including fusiform gyrus. Limbic areas in the amygdala and parahippocampal gyrus demonstrated a stronger activation for the identity than the emotion condition. One explanation for this finding is that the repetitive presentation of faces with different identities but the same emotional expression during the identity-task is responsible for the stronger increase in BOLD signal in the amygdala. These results raise the question how different emotional expressions are coded in WM. Our findings suggest that emotional expressions are re-coded in an abstract representation that is supported at the neural level by the canonical fronto-parietal WM network.

• The findings from the present study revealed that less than 30% of nursing and midwifery students have high assertiveness and only half of them have low anxiety. • Assertiveness and anxiety have negative correlations in nursing and midwifery students and affect the mental health and educational and occupational performance of the students. • Many factors such as years of education and working while studying influence the level of assertiveness in the students. • The anxiety in students had a significant relation with the father's level of education, family income, etc. The simultaneous existence of low assertiveness and high anxiety in nursing and midwifery students leads to the disruption of study performance. There exists little information concerning their assertiveness. The purpose of this study was to determine the relation of assertiveness and anxiety in nursing and midwifery students. In this correlational, cross-sectional study, 173 nursing students (68 males and 105 females) and 77 midwifery students were recruited from the Tehran University of Medical Sciences in Iran. Data were collected using a questionnaire including personal-social factors, the Spielberger Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Assertion Inventory of Gambrill and Richey. More than half of the nursing and midwifery students (59.5% and 59.7%, respectively) had moderate assertiveness. Also, 43.3% and 36.4% of them had moderate and high levels of anxiety. Pearson correlation test revealed that assertiveness and anxiety had negative correlations in nursing (r=-0.51, P < 0.001) and midwifery (r=-0.449, P < 0.001) students. Some demographic variables had significant correlations with assertiveness and anxiety among the students. Considering the relation of assertiveness and anxiety and its effects on mental health and educational and occupational performance, students should be informed of the required skills for positive interaction with others and to increase assertiveness and decrease anxiety.

• Explores current research illuminating the physiological mechanisms contributing the relationship of sleep dysfunction and depression. • Investigates the crucial role of sleep in the affective modulation of brain functioning. • Describes the relationship between emotional brain processing during rapid eye movement and depression. • Points to the use of multi-therapeutic approaches for treatment with emphasis on positive behavioural imagery therapies. This review synthesizes some of the most current investigative research to illuminate the physiological mechanisms contributing to the relationship between sleep dysfunction and depression. Major depression has consistently been linked to sleep abnormalities and insomnia is a robust risk factor in the initiating and development of depression. Recent neurobiological findings indicate the crucial role of sleep in the affective modulation of brain functioning. Studies have demonstrated that sleep in major depression is characterized by a reduction in slow wave sleep, interruptions in sleep continuity, longer periods of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep including a shortening of REM latency (i.e. the time between sleep onset and the occurrence of the first REM period), as well as an increase in REM density. The failure of sleep dependant emotional brain processing in REM sleep that seems to occur in depression, support the development and fostering of clinical depression. How depression likely interplays with these sleep processes points to the use of multi-therapeutic approaches for treatment with emphasis on positive behavioural imagery therapies.

Patients with epilepsy are frequently confronted with complex treatment decisions. Communicating treatment risks is often difficult because patients may have difficulty with basic statistical concepts (i.e., low numeracy) or might misconceive the statistical information based on the way information is presented, a phenomenon known as "framing bias." We assessed numeracy and framing bias in 95 adults with chronic epilepsy and explored cognitive correlates of framing bias. Compared with normal controls, patients with epilepsy had significantly poorer performance on the Numeracy scale (P=0.02), despite a higher level of education than normal controls (P<0.001). Compared with patients with higher numeracy, patients with lower numeracy were significantly more likely to exhibit framing bias. Abstract problem solving performance correlated with the degree of framing bias (r=0.631, P<0.0001), suggesting a relationship between aspects of executive functioning and framing bias. Poor numeracy and susceptibility framing bias place patients with epilepsy at risk for uninformed decisions.

Recent social psychological theory and research on political issues has returned to once-popular concepts such as political emotion and ideology. Strikingly, however, this work tends to avoid the notion of personality and explicit reference to individual differences. For example, the numerous studies that examine correlations between political beliefs, feelings, and preferences rarely acknowledge that such associations show an ideological coherence in individuals. Instead, correlations between abstract constructs are interpreted as suggesting causal processes. Individuals, and their responses, are aggregated to generate such correlations but remain for the most part unexamined and unmentioned. I discuss 5 practices in research and reporting that make it difficult to find the person in correlational models of political emotion. I use my own research to illustrate these practices and to show how attention to macrolevel forces such as group membership, status, and structure may be integrated with attention to the individual person and meaningful aggregates.

The Dictionary of Affect in Language was employed to compare two parts of Byron's Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, written before and after an interruption of several turbulent years in England. The post-interruption part of the poem employed fewer extreme emotional words and more abstract words than the pre-interruption part. In a second analysis, poems written during the interruption and poems written before and after Childe Harold were examined, along with it, in terms of emotion, imagery, and linguistic richness. Two variables--year and an interruption dummy coded as 1 for publications between 1812.5 and 1816.17--predicted observed differences accurately. Byron's poetry became linguistically richer, more abstract, and less passionate across time, and it was emotionally more negative and linguistically simpler during the turbulent years. Differences between the two parts of Childe Harold were best explained on the basis of time-dependent growth curves rather than the interruption.

Stereotype threat (ST) research has focused exclusively on how negative group stereotypes reduce performance. The present work examines if pejorative stereotypes about women in math inhibit their ability to learn the mathematical rules and operations necessary to solve math problems. In Experiment 1, women experiencing ST had difficulty encoding math-related information into memory and, therefore, learned fewer mathematical rules and showed poorer math performance than did controls. In Experiment 2, women experiencing ST while learning modular arithmetic (MA) performed more poorly than did controls on easy MA problems; this effect was due to reduced learning of the mathematical operations underlying MA. In Experiment 3, ST reduced women's, but not men's, ability to learn abstract mathematical rules and to transfer these rules to a second, isomorphic task. This work provides the first evidence that negative stereotypes about women in math reduce their level of mathematical learning and demonstrates that reduced learning due to stereotype threat can lead to poorer performance in negatively stereotyped domains.

To ensure their survival, animals exhibit a number of reward-directed behaviors, such as foraging for food or searching for mates. This suggests that a core set of brain regions may be shared by many species to process different types of rewards. Conversely, many new brain areas have emerged over the course of evolution, suggesting potential specialization of specific brain regions in the processing of more recent rewards such as money. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans, we identified the common and distinct brain systems processing the value of erotic stimuli and monetary gains. First, we provide evidence that a set of neural structures, including the ventral striatum, anterior insula, anterior cingulate cortex, and midbrain, encodes the subjective value of rewards regardless of their type, consistent with a general hedonic representation. More importantly, our results reveal reward-specific representations in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC): whereas the anterior lateral OFC, a phylogenetically recent structure, processes monetary gains, the posterior lateral OFC, phylogenetically and ontogenetically older, processes more basic erotic stimuli. This dissociation between OFC representations of primary and secondary rewards parallels current views on lateral prefrontal cortex organization in cognitive control, suggesting an increasing trend in complexity along a postero-anterior axis according to more abstract representations. Together, our results support a modular view of reward value coding in the brain and propose that a unifying principle of postero-anterior organization can be applied to the OFC.

According to embodied theories, the symbols used by language are meaningful because they are grounded in perception, action, and emotion. In contrast, according to abstract symbol theories, meaning arises from the syntactic combination of abstract, amodal symbols. If language is grounded in internal bodily states, then one would predict that emotion affects language. Consistent with this, advocates of embodied theories propose a strong link between emotion and language [Havas, D., Glenberg, A. M., & Rinck, M. Emotion simulation during language comprehension. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 14, 436-441, 2007; Niedenthal, P. M. Embodying emotion. Science, 316, 1002-1005, 2007]. The goal of this study was to test abstract symbol vs. embodied views of language by investigating whether mood affects semantic processing. To this aim, we induced different emotional states (happy vs. sad) by presenting film clips that displayed fragments from a happy movie or a sad movie. The clips were presented before and during blocks of sentences in which the cloze probability of mid-sentence critical words varied (high vs. low). Participants read sentences while ERPs were recorded. The mood induction procedure was successful: Participants watching the happy film clips scored higher on a mood scale than those watching the sad clips. For N400, mood by cloze probability interactions were obtained. The N400 cloze effect was strongly reduced in the sad mood compared with the happy mood condition. Furthermore, a difference in late positivity was only present for the sad mood condition. The mood by semantic processing interaction observed for N400 supports embodied theories of meaning and challenges abstract symbol theories that assume that processing of word meaning reflects a modular process.

In contrast to a perceptible threat that releases freezing, fleeing and fighting, abstract potential threat elicits anxiety and vigilance. The prevalent view is that the larger the animal groups the lower the individual vigilance. Vigilance is a reflection of anxiety, and here we show that anxiety is contagious in grouped social animals. In humans, anxiety frequently results in rituals that confer a sense of controllability and thereby a means to cope with anxiety. Accordingly, in mental disorders with sustained anxiety, rituals predominate the behavior and consequently reduce functionality. Finally, the adaptive value of precautionary behavior, including rituals, lies in providing individuals with the opportunity to practice defensive means safely, and thus to prepare for the eventuality of real danger. Accordingly, the prevalence of anxiety in human and animal behavior accords with the "better safe than sorry" principle.

Basic emotional states (such as anger, fear, and joy) can be similarly conveyed by the face, the body, and the voice. Are there human brain regions that represent these emotional mental states regardless of the sensory cues from which they are perceived? To address this question, in the present study participants evaluated the intensity of emotions perceived from face movements, body movements, or vocal intonations, while their brain activity was measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Using multivoxel pattern analysis, we compared the similarity of response patterns across modalities to test for brain regions in which emotion-specific patterns in one modality (e.g., faces) could predict emotion-specific patterns in another modality (e.g., bodies). A whole-brain searchlight analysis revealed modality-independent but emotion category-specific activity patterns in medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and left superior temporal sulcus (STS). Multivoxel patterns in these regions contained information about the category of the perceived emotions (anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness) across all modality comparisons (face-body, face-voice, body-voice), and independently of the perceived intensity of the emotions. No systematic emotion-related differences were observed in the overall amplitude of activation in MPFC or STS. These results reveal supramodal representations of emotions in high-level brain areas previously implicated in affective processing, mental state attribution, and theory-of-mind. We suggest that MPFC and STS represent perceived emotions at an abstract, modality-independent level, and thus play a key role in the understanding and categorization of others' emotional mental states.

Subjective rationality, or the feeling of meaning, was identified by William James (1893) as a central aspect of the non-sensory fringe of consciousness. Three studies examined the interaction of positive affect (PA) and individual differences in intuitive information processing in predicting feelings of meaning for various stimuli and life events. In Study 1 (N = 352), PA and intuition interacted to predict understanding for ambiguous quotes and abstract artwork. In Study 2 (N = 211), similar interactions were found for feelings of meaning for fans after their football team lost a conference championship game and for individuals not directly affected by Hurricane Katrina in events surrounding the hurricane. In Study 3 (N = 41), induced PA interacted with individual differences in intuition in predicting accuracy for coherence judgments for loosely related linguistic triads. Intuitive individuals in the positive mood condition recognized coherent triads more accurately than did other participants. Results are discussed in terms of the role of individual differences in intuitive information processing in the relationship of PA to cognition.

The meaning maintenance model asserts that following a meaning threat, people will affirm any meaning frameworks that are available. Three experiments tested (a) whether people affirm alternative meaning frameworks after reading absurdist literature, (b) what role expectations play in determining whether absurdities are threatening, and (c) whether people have a heightened need for meaning following exposure to absurdist art. In Study 1, participants who read an absurd Kafka parable affirmed an alternative meaning framework more than did those who read a meaningful parable. In Study 2, participants who read an absurd Monty Python parody engaged in compensatory affirmation efforts only if they were led to expect a conventional story. In Study 3, participants who were exposed to absurdist art or reminders of their mortality, compared to participants exposed to representational or abstract art, reported higher scores on the Personal Need for Structure scale, suggesting that they experienced a heightened need for meaning.

Functional neuroimaging investigations in the fields of social neuroscience and neuroeconomics indicate that the anterior insular cortex (AI) is consistently involved in empathy, compassion, and interpersonal phenomena such as fairness and cooperation. These findings suggest that AI plays an important role in social emotions, hereby defined as affective states that arise when we interact with other people and that depend on the social context. After we link the role of AI in social emotions to interoceptive awareness and the representation of current global emotional states, we will present a model suggesting that AI is not only involved in representing current states, but also in predicting emotional states relevant to the self and others. This model also proposes that AI enables us to learn about emotional states as well as about the uncertainty attached to events, and implies that AI plays a dominant role in decision making in complex and uncertain environments. Our review further highlights that dorsal and ventro-central, as well as anterior and posterior subdivisions of AI potentially subserve different functions and guide different aspects of behavioral regulation. We conclude with a section summarizing different routes to understanding other people's actions, feelings and thoughts, emphasizing the notion that the predominant role of AI involves understanding others' feeling and bodily states rather than their action intentions or abstract beliefs.

Processes in the mind: perception, cognition, concepts, instincts, emotions, and higher cognitive abilities for abstract thinking, beautiful music are considered here within a neural modeling fields (NMFs) paradigm. Its fundamental mathematical mechanism is a process "from vague-fuzzy to crisp," called dynamic logic (DL). This paper discusses why this paradigm is necessary mathematically, and relates it to a psychological description of the mind. Surprisingly, the process from "vague to crisp" corresponds to Aristotelian understanding of mental functioning. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements confirmed this process in neural mechanisms of perception.

The multidimensional nature of the fibromyalgia syndrome means that different instruments need to be used to assess the patients' perception of this constellation of physical and psychological symptoms and their impact on their daily lives. Six questionnaires (Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory MFI, Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire FIQ, Multiple Ability Self-report Questionnaire MASQ, State-Trait Anxiety Inventory STAI, Beck Depression Inventory-II BDI-II and Patient Global Impression of Change PGIC) were linguistically validated into 12 languages. The standardized cross-cultural adaptation process includes the following steps: forward translation, backward translation, and review of the version by a clinician and comprehension tests on subjects in the target country. Regardless of the instruments and dimensions studied, the same translation and cultural adaptation issues arose: (1) an issue that is strictly related to translation, for example, the word "things" was translated as "something"; (2) literal translation is possible but culturally irrelevant, for example the expression "to walk several blocks", which is a completely abstract concept in Europe, was translated as "to walk for more than one kilometre"; (3) the translation needed to be reformulated or the tense needed to be changed for idiomatic reasons. For example, the present perfect does not exist in German and so the present simple was used in the first version. The imperfect was eventually used with adverbs such as "lately". Linguistic adaptation was completed according to a recognized and rigorous method allowing for the wide-scale use of these patient-reported outcomes instruments in international studies.

After 14 years of rising death rates due to unintentional injuries in the U.S., it is time to ask how safety messages can be redesigned to have a greater impact on risky behavior. To this end, many researchers have called for a new, narrative approach to prevention messages-based on persuasive stories about people who have suffered injuries and illnesses in the past. Still, there is scant evidence that story-based communications are more effective than equivalent non-narrative messages at changing actual (rather than self-reported) safety and health behavior. Our research examined the impact of injury stories on actual safety behavior in a controlled experimental setting at a US university. Teams of participants assembled a product (a child's swing) using written instructions. The instructions contained safety messages targeting assembly mistakes that have been linked to serious injuries in children who play on swings. Participant teams were randomly assigned to three conditions: assembly instructions containing story-based safety messages, instructions with concrete (but non-anecdotal) safety messages, and instructions with traditional abstract safety messages. After adjustment for covariates, story-based messages resulted in a 19 percent improvement in safety behavior, compared with non-narrative communications. Importantly, injury stories did not create undue fear of the message object, demonstrating that brief anecdotes about accident victims can convince people to take reasonable precautions without creating unwarranted alarm about risks.

Abstract Background. High levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) are associated with depressed mood, but the causal relationships are not known. Therefore, we examined the relationships between hs-CRP and incident depressed mood among the elderly. Methods. Altogether 764 (69%) individuals out of a representative sample of subjects aged 70 years or older (N = 1113) were screened with the Short Zung Self Rating Depression Scale (SZSRDS), and serum hs-CRP determinations were done at the same time. After a two-and-a-half-year follow-up, the SZSRDS examinations were repeated among those who were free of depressed mood (SZSRDS score >or=28 or use of an anti-depressant drug) at the baseline (N = 404). Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) and logistic regression were used to analyse the relationship between the baseline hs-CRP (<1, 1 < 3, 3 <10 mg/L) and the follow-up SZSRDS scores (10-40) and depressed mood. Results. Baseline hs-CRP was not associated with an increasing trend in SZSRDS scores and depressed mood in the total study population, but there was a significant gender interaction. Among the men, elevated hs-CRP was associated with an increasing trend in the SZSRDS score and depressed mood. Conclusions. High hs-CRP predicts a higher incident SZSRDS score and depressed mood among older men, suggesting a possible inflammatory etiology for depression.

Moral judgment is an evaluation of the actions and character of a person made with respect to societal norms. Although many types of vignettes have been used in previous studies on moral beliefs and judgment, what is missing is a set of standardized common vignettes based in real life. The goal of this study was to provide researchers with stimuli that have values on several dimensions pertaining to moral judgment and whose underlying components are known. These values will allow researchers to select stimuli based on standardized ratings rather than on the results of pilot studies, while avoiding the limitations of the classic, abstract moral scenarios. Our study was composed of three phases, (i) collecting and shortening the vignettes, (ii) obtaining ratings of the vignettes on several dimensions including emotional intensity, degree of social norm violation, and level of harm or benefit caused and (iii) determining the underlying components of the vignettes by performing a factor analysis. We found three components that accounted for most of the variance: norm violation, social affect and intention. The resulting vignettes can be used in future parametric studies on moral judgment in behavioral, neuropsychological and functional imaging experiments.

Despite much recent interest in the clinical neuroscience of music processing, the cognitive organization of music as a domain of non-verbal knowledge has been little studied. Here we addressed this issue systematically in two expert musicians with clinical diagnoses of semantic dementia and Alzheimer's disease, in comparison with a control group of healthy expert musicians. In a series of neuropsychological experiments, we investigated associative knowledge of musical compositions (musical objects), musical emotions, musical instruments (musical sources) and music notation (musical symbols). These aspects of music knowledge were assessed in relation to musical perceptual abilities and extra-musical neuropsychological functions. The patient with semantic dementia showed relatively preserved recognition of musical compositions and musical symbols despite severely impaired recognition of musical emotions and musical instruments from sound. In contrast, the patient with Alzheimer's disease showed impaired recognition of compositions, with somewhat better recognition of composer and musical era, and impaired comprehension of musical symbols, but normal recognition of musical emotions and musical instruments from sound. The findings suggest that music knowledge is fractionated, and superordinate musical knowledge is relatively more robust than knowledge of particular music. We propose that music constitutes a distinct domain of non-verbal knowledge but shares certain cognitive organizational features with other brain knowledge systems. Within the domain of music knowledge, dissociable cognitive mechanisms process knowledge derived from physical sources and the knowledge of abstract musical entities.

Empathy is understood to refer to the capacity to vicariously experience the emotional states of others, and is considered to play a crucial role in many forms of adaptive social interaction. It has two components, one of which is cognitive and strongly related to the capacity to abstract the mental processes of other people, while the other is emotional and would be the reaction to the emotional state of another person. The development of neuroimaging techniques has made it possible to further our knowledge of the neuronal circuits involved in empathy by using a variety of strategies in the laboratory. The main studies in this field have focused on the presentation of stimuli. Thus, we have distinguished between those that involve emotions or expressing disgust, somatosensory and painful stimuli, and also those that analyse the relationship between empathy and forgiveness. Our aim in this study was to offer an updated view of the brain structures involved in empathy by analysing the different methodological strategies used in the scientific literature on this topic. Furthermore, we also sought to show the behavioural and neuroanatomical dissociation that exists between the cognitive and emotional components of empathy, as well as the fact that the majority of neural circuits regulating empathy are similar to those related to aggression and violence.

Suicide notes from two groups of protest suicides in South Korea during the period 1975-2003 were compared: suicide notes from students (n =16) and suicide notes from workers (n = 15). The students appeared to be acting upon abstract ideals, including the oppression of the masses by the government and the American forces in Korea, and they typically urged the reunification of Korea. The workers were acting upon more local concerns, such as the oppression of their union by the government and the companies and the policies of their specific companies.

To identify factors associated with attempted suicide in the elderly. Social, psychological, and psychiatric characteristics were compared in suicide attempters (70 years and older) and a representative population sample. Emergency departments at five hospitals in western Sweden and a representative sample of the elderly population. Persons with Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score <15 were excluded. One hundred forty persons who sought hospital treatment after a suicide attempt were eligible and 103 participated (57 women, 46 men, and mean age 80 years). Comparison subjects matched for gender and age group (N = 408) were randomly selected among participants in our general population studies. Symptoms were rated with identical instruments in cases and comparison subjects. The examination included the MMSE and tests of short- and long-term memory, abstract thinking, aphasia, apraxia, and agnosia. Depressive symptomatology was measured using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, and major and minor depressions were diagnosed according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, using symptom algorithms. Factors associated with attempted suicide included being unmarried, living alone, low education level, history of psychiatric treatment, and previous suicide attempt. There was no association with dementia. Odds ratios were increased for both major (odds ratio [OR]: 47.4, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 19.1-117.7) and minor (OR: 2.6, 95% CI: 1.5-4.7) depressions. An association was observed between perceived loneliness and attempted suicide; this relationship was independent of depression (OR: 2.8, 95% CI: 1.3-6.1). Observed associations mirrored those previously shown for completed suicide. Results may help to inform clinical decisions regarding suicide risk evaluation in this vulnerable and growing age group.

According to politeness theory (P. Brown & S. Levinson, 1987), politeness serves to both reflect and regulate social distance. On the basis of this notion and on construal level theory (N. Liberman & Y. Trope, 2008; N. Liberman, Y. Trope, & E. Stephan, 2007), it was predicted that politeness would be related to abstract construal, temporal distance, and spatial distance. Eight studies supported this prediction. Politeness increased when the addressees were construed abstractly (Study 1), were temporally distant (Studies 2, 3), and were spatially distant (Study 4). It was also found that increasing politeness produced abstract construals (Study 5), greater temporal distance (Study 6), and greater spatial distance (Study 7, 8). These findings shed light on the way politeness operates in different cultures and is conveyed in different languages, and they support the idea that dimensions of psychological distance are interrelated.

Previous research has demonstrated that definable qualities of verbal stimuli have implications for memory. For example, the distinction between concrete and abstract words has led to the finding that concrete words have an advantage in memory tasks (i.e., the concreteness effect). However, other word types, such as words that label specific human emotions, may also affect memory processes. This study examined the effects of word type on the production of false memories by using a list-learning false memory paradigm. Participants heard lists of words that were highly associated to nonpresented concrete, abstract, or emotion words (i.e., the critical lures) and then engaged in list recall. Emotion word critical lures were falsely recalled at a significantly higher rate (with the effect carried by the positively valenced critical lures) than concrete and abstract critical lures. These findings suggest that the word type variable has implications for our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie recall and false recall.

Fecal incontinence (FI) in community-dwelling men affects quality of life and increases the risk of institutionalization. Observational studies and randomized, controlled trials (RCTs) on epidemiology and prevention of FI published in English from 1990 to November 2007 were identified in several databases to abstract rates and adjusted odds ratios (ORs) of incontinence and to synthesize evidence with random effects models. Twenty-one observational studies and 4 RCTs were eligible for analysis. Pooled prevalence of FI in elderly men increased with age to 5% to 6%. Men over age 85 years (OR 2.5; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-5) and with kidney diseases (OR 1.9; 95% CI, 1.2-3.3) had higher odds of incident FI. Significantly impaired cognitive status and general health were associated with FI. Men had increased risk of incontinence after radical prostatectomy or radiation for prostate cancer. Lower doses of radiation caused inconsistent reduction in FI across 2 RCTs. The prevalence of incontinence increased with age and functional dependency. Cognitive impairment, poor general health, surgery, and radiation for prostate cancer were associated with incontinence in community-dwelling men. No effective interventions are known at the present time.

The present study investigated the neural correlates of the processing of abstract (low imageability) verbs. An extensive body of literature has investigated concrete versus abstract nouns but little is known about how abstract verbs are processed. Spanish abstract verbs including emotion verbs (e.g., amar, "to love"; molestar, "to annoy") were compared to concrete verbs (e.g., llevar, "to carry"; arrastrar, "to drag"). Results indicated that abstract verbs elicited stronger activity in regions previously associated with semantic retrieval such as inferior frontal, anterior temporal, and posterior temporal regions, and that concrete and abstract activation networks (compared to that of pseudoverbs) were partially distinct, with concrete verbs eliciting more posterior activity in these regions. In contrast to previous studies investigating nouns, verbs strongly engage both left and right inferior frontal gyri, suggesting, as previously found, that right prefrontal cortex aids difficult semantic retrieval. Together with previous evidence demonstrating nonverbal conceptual roles for the active regions as well as experiential content for abstract word meanings, our results suggest that abstract verbs impose greater demands on semantic retrieval or property integration, and are less consistent with the view that abstract words recruit left-lateralized regions because they activate verbal codes or context, as claimed by proponents of the dual-code theory. Moreover, our results are consistent with distributed accounts of semantic memory because distributed networks may coexist with varying retrieval demands.

The impacts of antiretroviral therapy (ART) on quality of life, mental health, labor productivity, and economic wellbeing for people living with HIV/AIDS in developing countries are only beginning to be measured. We conducted a systematic literature review to analyze the effect of ART on these economic and quality of life indicators in developing countries and assess the state of research on these topics. We searched Ovid/Medline, PubMed, Psych Info, Web of Science, Google Scholar, and the abstract database of the International AIDS Society Conference and the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections. Both qualitative and quantitative studies were included, as were peer-reviewed articles, gray literature, and conference abstracts and presentations. Findings are reported from 21 publications, including 14 full-length articles, six abstracts, and one presentation (representing 16 studies). Compared to HIV-positive patients not yet on treatment, patients on ART reported significant improvements in physical, emotional and mental health, and daily function. Work performance improved and absenteeism decreased, with the most dramatic changes occurring in the first three months of treatment and then leveling off. Little research has been done on the impact of ART on household wellbeing, with modest changes in child and family wellbeing within households where adults are receiving ART reportrd so far. Most studies from developing countries have not yet assessed economic and quality of life outcomes of therapy beyond the first year; therefore, longitudinal outcomes are still unknown. Findings were limited geographically, with an emphasis on sub-Saharan Africa and adult treatment. As ART roll out extends throughout high HIV prevalence, low-resource countries and is sustained over years and decades, research on pediatric and differential gender economic and quality of life outcomes will become increasingly urgent, as will systematic evaluation of ART programs.

The present study used the experience sampling method to detect fluctuations in thinking, such as self-focus or concreteness in daily life, and to examine their relationship with depressive symptoms and concurrent negative affect. Thirty-one undergraduates recorded their negative affect, ruminative self-focus, and concreteness of thinking eight times a day for 1 week. Multilevel modeling showed that individuals with increasing levels of depression showed lower levels of concreteness in their daily thinking. Further analysis revealed a significant positive association between momentary ruminative self-focus and concurrent negative affect only with low concreteness of thinking. These results suggested that individuals with increasing levels of depression chronically process self-related information on an abstract level, which reflects a malfunction of their self-regulatory cycle and might serve to maintain or even exacerbate dysphoric moods.

Abstract The subject of patient-physician boundaries has been most extensively explored in the psychiatric literature, but to date, little has been published about this concept within the realm of palliative care. Some palliative care physicians may be particularly susceptible to boundary crossings due to the intensity and intimacy of the bonds that form with patients at the end-of-life. We illustrate the concept of boundary crossings and violations in palliative care using the case of a palliative care trainee who experiences difficulties in maintaining boundaries with a dying patient. We discuss the nature of the patient-physician relationship using role theory and discuss how the formation of dual roles can be detrimental to the patient-physician relationship. Finally, we explore why palliative care practitioners and trainees are particularly vulnerable to crossing boundaries and how to recognize and manage these crossings when they occur.

Abstract Background Congenital heart disease can have a negative impact on both infant development and maternal adjustment. This study considered the impact of a new programme of early psychosocial interventions on such outcomes, following the birth of a child with severe congenital heart disease. Methods Seventy infants and their mothers were assigned to an intervention or control group based on order of presentation to the unit. Interventions aimed at bolstering mother-infant transactions, through psychoeducation, parent skills training and narrative therapy techniques were implemented. Results Clinically and statistically significant gains were observed at 6-month follow-up on the mental (but not the psychomotor) scale of the Bayleys-II. Positive gains were also manifested on feeding practices, maternal anxiety, worry and appraisal of their situation. Conclusions A programme of generalizable psychosocial interventions is shown to have a positive impact on the infant with severe congenital heart disease and the mother.

To investigate whether acute alcohol would affect performance of a conditioned behavioural response to obtain a reward outcome and impair performance in a task measuring inhibitory control to provide new knowledge of how the acute effects of alcohol might contribute to the transition from alcohol use to dependence. A randomized controlled between-subjects design was employed. The laboratory of experimental psychology at the University of Sussex. Thirty-two light to moderate social drinkers recruited from the undergraduate and postgraduate population. After the administration of alcohol (0.8 g/kg) or placebo participants underwent an instrumental reward-seeking procedure, with abstract stimuli serving as S+ (always predicting a win of 10 pence) and S- (always predicting a loss of 10 pence). In addition, a Stop Signal task was administered before and after the administration of alcohol. Participants of the alcohol group performed the behavioural response to obtain the reward outcome more often than placebo subjects in trials associated with loss of money. This finding was observed, although alcohol was not affecting explicit knowledge of stimulus-response outcome contingencies and acquisition of conditioned attentional and emotional responses. In addition, alcohol increased Stop Signal reaction time indicating disinhibiting effects of alcohol, and this was associated positively with response probability to the S-. These results demonstrate that alcohol is affecting inhibitory control of behavioural responses to external signals even when associated with punishment, contributing in this way to the transition from alcohol use to dependence.

Self-construal abstractness (SCA) refers to the degree to which people construe important bases of self-esteem in a broad, flexible, and abstract rather than a concrete and specific manner. This article hypothesized that SCA would be a unique predictor of self-esteem stability, capturing the degree to which people's most important bases of self-worth are resistant to disconfirmation. Two studies using a daily diary methodology examined relationships between SCA, daily self-esteem, and daily emotions and/or events. In Study 1, individual differences in SCA emerged as the most consistent and unique predictor of self-esteem stability. Furthermore, SCA contributed to self-esteem stability by buffering the influence of daily negative emotions on self-esteem. Study 2 manipulated SCA via a daily self-construal task and found an abstract versus concrete self-focus to buffer the influence of daily negative events on self-esteem. Implications of these findings for the study of the self and well-being are discussed.

Persons with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and similar levels of forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1)), exercise capacity, and dyspnea have a wide range of health-related quality of life (HRQL). We identified the independent determinants of HRQL in persons with COPD. Comprehensive assessments of physiological, psychosocial, and clinical variables from the National Emphysema Treatment Trial were used. HRQL was assessed by the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS) scores and the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire total score (SGRQ-TS). In multivariate linear regression models, exercise capacity, dyspnea, age, single-breath diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide percent predicted, and self-report of being disabled were significant determinants of PCS score. Dyspnea, depression, antidepressant use, daytime sleepiness, and education were significant determinants of MCS score. Prior participation in pulmonary rehabilitation, supplemental oxygen use, and oral corticosteroid use were significant determinants of SGRQ-TS. Although FEV(1), 6-minute walk test distance, and dyspnea significantly correlated with HRQL, their effects on HRQL were reduced when other variables were considered. Greater exercise capacity, prior participation in pulmonary rehabilitation, and use of supplemental oxygen were significantly associated with better HRQL. Self-perception of being disabled, (Abstract continued) depression, dyspnea, oral corticosteroid use, and daytime sleepiness were associated with worse HRQL. To optimize HRQL, clinicians should pay attention to a number of clinical and physiological factors.

Depression is one of the most common neuropsychiatric disorders in Alzheimer's disease (AD). To evaluate whether depression exacerbates verbal and non-verbal memory impairment in early AD patients. The study compared the performance of 23 patients who received a diagnosis of AD, with or without depression, 15 patients with unipolar major depression (UD) and 20 healthy control subjects (HS) on memory tasks (recall and recognition) for words, abstract designs and position. AD patients were stratified into two groups, according to the presence or absence of depression, well matched on clinical and sociodemographic characteristics. Patients with AD scored significantly lower than HS and UD groups on verbal memory measures. However, the recognition was the only non-verbal memory measure that discriminated significantly between AD and UD groups. The AD groups (with or without depression) did not show any significant differences on memory performance. Depression is associated with significant memory impairment in non-demented patients. The presence of depression did not increase memory impairment in AD patients.

Reports an error in "Affect dynamics, affective forecasting, and aging" by Lisbeth Nielsen, Brian Knutson and Laura L. Carstensen (Emotion, 2008[Jun], Vol 8[3], 318-330). The first author of the article was listed as being affiliated with both the National Institute on Aging and the Department of Psychology, Stanford University. Dr. Nielsen would like to clarify that the research for this article was conducted while she was a postdoctoral fellow at Stanford University; her current affiliation is only with the National Institute on Aging. The copyright notice should also have been listed as "In the Public Domain." (The following abstract of the original article appeared in record 2008-06717-002.) [Correction Notice: The same erratum for this article was reported in Vol 8(5) of Emotion (see record 2008-13989-013).] Affective forecasting, experienced affect, and recalled affect were compared in younger and older adults during a task in which participants worked to win and avoid losing small monetary sums. Dynamic changes in affect were measured along valence and arousal dimensions, with probes during both anticipatory and consummatory task phases. Older and younger adults displayed distinct patterns of affect dynamics. Younger adults reported increased negative arousal during loss anticipation and positive arousal during gain anticipation. In contrast, older adults reported increased positive arousal during gain anticipation but showed no increase in negative arousal on trials involving loss anticipation. Additionally, younger adults reported large increases in valence after avoiding an anticipated loss, but older adults did not. Younger, but not older, adults exhibited forecasting errors on the arousal dimension, underestimating increases in arousal during anticipation of gains and losses and overestimating increases in arousal in response to gain outcomes. Overall, the findings are consistent with a growing literature suggesting that older people experience less negative emotion than their younger counterparts and further suggest that they may better predict dynamic changes in affect.

This author suggests that myopia is related to psychogenic factors involving an unconscious representation of, and defense against tension. Further, the argument is made that such tension directly causes the extra-ocular muscles of the eyeball to tighten, ultimately creating the errors of refraction, which define the condition known as myopia. The author makes the case that the specific nature of the tension has to do with an interruption in the separation-individuation process that has occurred, in which the myopic individual experiences separation anxiety, and is now "required" to stay close to the mother for fear of abandonment. Apparently, the only way myopes are then able to achieve some sort of psychological distance is through the development of high-level abstract conceptualization abilities. In addition to separation fears, this author notes that myopes exhibit significantly higher levels of castration anxiety as compared with normal-sighted individuals, matched in IQ. Tables showing empirical findings supporting the above psychoanalytic interpretations are provided for the readers review.

In the first experiment, we demonstrated evaluative conditioning using a novel across-modality procedure in which pictorial abstract brand logos acted as conditioned stimulus (CSs) and self-selected foods of different hedonic valence functioned as unconditioned stimuli (USs). We then investigated whether this form of learning of likes discriminates against redundant CSs using a blocking paradigm in the second experiment. The strength of evaluative conditioning accruing to the target CSs during compound training was unaffected by whether the other element of the compound was pretrained with a hedonic US. The observation that contingency learning about the target CS was blocked by the pretraining suggests that learning of likes and predictive learning are mediated by different processes.

Abstract This cross-sectional study of adult survey respondents with disability and depression (n = 199) enrolled in Massachusetts' Medicaid program examined the association of adequately or inadequately prescribed antidepressant treatment and self-reported work status using conditional logistic regression, controlling for age, gender, race, marital status, education, receipt of SSI/SSDI, self-reported disabling condition, and health status. Confounding by severity was addressed by two methods: restriction of our sample and subsequent stratification by propensity score. Individuals receiving adequate antidepressant treatment had an increased odds of working compared to individuals receiving inadequate treatment, both in analyses in which restriction was used to limit confounding (OR = 3.45, 95% CI = 1.15-10.32, P < .03), and in analyses which combined restriction with adjustment by propensity score stratification (OR = 3.04, 95% CI = 1.01-9.62, P < .05). Among this sample of Medicaid enrollees with disability and depression, those receiving adequate antidepressant treatment were significantly more likely to report working.

The neural circuits underlying initial sensory processing of somatic information are relatively well understood. In contrast, the processes that go beyond primary somatosensation to create more abstract representations related to the body are less clear. In this review, we focus on two classes of higher-order processing beyond somatosensation. Somatoperception refers to the process of perceiving the body itself, and particularly of ensuring somatic perceptual constancy. We review three key elements of somatoperception: (a) remapping information from the body surface into an egocentric reference frame, (b) exteroceptive perception of objects in the external world through their contact with the body, and (c) interoceptive percepts about the nature and state of the body itself. Somatorepresentation, in contrast, refers to the essentially cognitive process of constructing semantic knowledge and attitudes about the body, including: (d) lexical-semantic knowledge about bodies generally and one's own body specifically, (e) configural knowledge about the structure of bodies, (f) emotions and attitudes directed towards one's own body, and (g) the link between physical body and psychological self. We review a wide range of neuropsychological, neuroimaging and neurophysiological data to explore the dissociation between these different aspects of higher somatosensory function.

Rumination has been identified as a core process in the development and maintenance of depression. Treatments targeting ruminative processes may, therefore, be particularly helpful for treating chronic and recurrent depression. The development of such treatments requires translational research that marries clinical trials, process-outcome research, and basic experimental research that investigates the mechanisms underpinning pathological rumination. For example, a program of experimental research has demonstrated that there are distinct processing modes during rumination that have distinct functional effects for the consequences of rumination on a range of clinically relevant cognitive and emotional processes: an adaptive style characterized by more concrete, specific processing and a maladaptive style characterized by abstract, overgeneral processing. Based on this experimental work, two new treatments for depression have been developed and evaluated: (a) rumination-focused cognitive therapy, an individual-based face-to-face therapy, which has encouraging results in the treatment of residual depression in an extended case series and a pilot randomized controlled trial; and (b) concreteness training, a facilitated self-help intervention intended to increase specificity of processing in patients with depression, which has beneficial findings in a proof-of-principle study in a dysphoric population. These findings indicate the potential value of process-outcome research (a) explicitly targeting identified vulnerability processes and (b) developing interventions informed by research into basic mechanisms.

Do people with different kinds of bodies think differently? According to the body-specificity hypothesis, people who interact with their physical environments in systematically different ways should form correspondingly different mental representations. In a test of this hypothesis, 5 experiments investigated links between handedness and the mental representation of abstract concepts with positive or negative valence (e.g., honesty, sadness, intelligence). Mappings from spatial location to emotional valence differed between right- and left-handed participants. Right-handers tended to associate rightward space with positive ideas and leftward space with negative ideas, but left-handers showed the opposite pattern, associating rightward space with negative ideas and leftward with positive ideas. These contrasting mental metaphors for valence cannot be attributed to linguistic experience, because idioms in English associate good with right but not with left. Rather, right- and left-handers implicitly associated positive valence more strongly with the side of space on which they could act more fluently with their dominant hands. These results support the body-specificity hypothesis and provide evidence for the perceptuomotor basis of even the most abstract ideas.

During pregnancy, the physical and mental states greatly change. We investigated the influences of pregnancy and anxiety on postural control in pregnant women (P) standing upright in the late trimester. An analysis of posturograms revealed that the area of body sway and length of antero-posterior body sway were greater in P than those in non-pregnant controls (NP). No difference was found in the medio-lateral body sway between P and NP. Fast Fourier transform analysis of body sway showed that the percentile power of the 1.0-10.0Hz band in the medio-lateral axis was smaller in P than in NP irrespective of whether the eyes were open or closed. P were divided into a high (HA) and low (LA) anxiety group on the basis of state anxiety scored by Spielberger's State- and Trait-Anxiety Inventory. A positive correlation was identified between state anxiety and the area of body sway in HA standing with eyes open. This correlation was diminished when the eyes were closed. Body sway of over 1Hz is generally stabilized by somatosensory input, therefore, the results show that body sway in the medio-lateral axis is stabilized in P by increasing the sensitivity to somatosensory cues. High anxiety during pregnancy destabilizes the standing posture when the eyes are open. The correlation between anxiety and body sway revealed by our previous studies in college students was also confirmed in P, suggesting that humans with high anxiety abstract visual cues differently from those with low anxiety.

Because of its abstract nature, worrying might function as an avoidance response in order to cognitively disengage from fearful imagery. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigated neural correlates of aversive imagery and their association with worry tendencies, as measured by the Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ). Nineteen healthy women first viewed, and subsequently imagined pictures from two categories, 'threat' and 'happiness'. Worry tendencies were negatively correlated with brain activation in the anterior cingulate cortex, the prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral, dorsomedial, ventrolateral), the parietal cortex and the insula. These negative correlations between PSWQ scores and localized brain activation were specific for aversive imagery. Moreover, activation in the above mentioned regions was positively associated with the experienced vividness of both pleasant and unpleasant mental pictures. As the identified brain regions are involved in emotion regulation, vivid imagery and memory retrieval, a lowered activity in high PSWQ scorers might be associated with cognitive disengagement from aversive imagery as well as insufficient refresh rates of mental pictures. Our preliminary findings encourage future imagery studies on generalized anxiety disorder patients, as one of the main symptoms of this disorder is excessive worrying.

Theories of embodied cognition hold that higher cognitive processes operate on perceptual symbols and that concept use involves partial reactivations of the sensory-motor states that occur during experience with the world. On this view, the processing of emotion knowledge involves a (partial) reexperience of an emotion, but only when access to the sensory basis of emotion knowledge is required by the task. In 2 experiments, participants judged emotional and neutral concepts corresponding to concrete objects (Experiment 1) and abstract states (Experiment 2) while facial electromyographic activity was recorded from the cheek, brow, eye, and nose regions. Results of both studies show embodiment of specific emotions in an emotion-focused but not a perceptual-focused processing task on the same words. A follow up in Experiment 3, which blocked selective facial expressions, suggests a causal, rather than simply a correlational, role for embodiment in emotion word processing. Experiment 4, using a property generation task, provided support for the conclusion that emotions embodied in conceptual tasks are context-dependent situated simulations rather than associated emotional reactions. Implications for theories of embodied simulation and for emotion theories are discussed.

Previous research in depressed participants has supported the differentiation of self-focus into distinct modes of self-attention with distinct functional effects. In particular, Rimes and Watkins (2005) investigated the effects of self-focused rumination on overgeneral thinking and found that analytical, evaluative self-focus increased global negative self-judgments, whereas self-focus low in analytical thinking decreased such judgments in depressed participants. Given that self-focused attention and rumination have been implicated in the maintenance of social anxiety, the present study investigated the effects of these two distinct forms of self-focused attention on global negative self-judgments in an analogue sample for social anxiety (high and low fear of negative evaluation, FNE). Individuals high and low in FNE (n=41 per group) were randomly allocated to analytic (abstract, evaluative) or experiential (concrete, process-focused) self-focused manipulations. As predicted, in high FNE individuals, the experiential self-focus condition decreased ratings of the self as worthless and incompetent pre- to post-manipulation, whereas the analytical self-focus condition maintained such negative self-judgments. Analytical and experiential self-focus did not differ in their effects on mood. The results suggest that an experiential mode of self-focused rumination may be adaptive in social anxiety.

The authors examined the effects of depressed affect (DA) on functioning measured by behavioral tasks pertaining to abstract reasoning, social functioning, and delay of gratification in relation to Cluster B personality disorder features (PDs) in a clinical sample. Individuals were randomly assigned to either a DA induction or control condition. Consistent with clinical conceptualizations, the authors expected that Cluster B PD symptoms would be related to maladaptive responding (e.g., poorer delay of gratification) when experiencing DA. As hypothesized, many of the relations between the Cluster B PDs and functioning were moderated by DA (e.g., borderline PD was negatively related to abstract reasoning, but only in the DA condition). However, many of the Cluster B PDs symptom counts were related to more adaptive responses in the DA condition (e.g., less aggressive social functioning, better delay of gratification). The authors speculate that individuals with Cluster B PDs may be more likely to respond maladaptively to alternative negative mood states, such as anger and fear.

The turn to empirical ethics answers two calls. The first is for a richer account of morality than that afforded by bioethical principlism, which is cast as excessively abstract and thin on the facts. The second is for the facts in question to be those of human experience and not some other, unworldly realm. Empirical ethics therefore promises a richer naturalistic ethics, but in fulfilling the second call it often fails to heed the metaethical requirements related to the first. Empirical ethics risks losing the normative edge which necessarily characterizes the ethical, by failing to account for the nature and the logic of moral norms. I sketch a naturalistic theory, teleological expressivism (TE), which negotiates the naturalistic fallacy by providing a more satisfactory means of taking into account facts and research data with ethical implications. The examples of informed consent and the euthanasia debate are used to illustrate the superiority of this approach, and the problems consequent on including the facts in the wrong kind of way.

Deficits in emotion perception are prevalent in people with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) and are an important target for remediation. Preliminary work has indicated that emotion perception can improve with treatment but there is a dearth of studies examining the efficacy of specific techniques. In this study we examined two remediation strategies: (1) focusing attention on relevant aspects of the facial expression, and (2) mimicking the facial expression. Twenty-two people with chronic, severe brain injuries and 32 people matched on basic demographic variables were asked to label six basic emotions spontaneously followed by either a Focus or Mimic instructional strategy. Contrary to expectations, the TBI group was not poorer than the control group in the Spontaneous condition. Consequently, the effects of Focus vs. Mimic were examined for participants who had average scores or less in the Spontaneous condition (n = 14 and 20, respectively). The poorer performing control group was found to benefit from repeated exposure regardless of remediation strategy. The TBI group did not. Over and above repeated exposure, the Focus instruction assisted control participants but lead to poorer performance in those with TBI. The Mimic strategy resulted in little improvement for either group. Those who benefited least from the Focus strategies in the TBI group were those with poor abstract reasoning and flexibility. There was no such association in the control group and no associations between cognitive abilities and changes in scores using the Mimic strategy in either group.

We propose an integrative cognitive neuroscience framework for understanding the cognitive and neural foundations of religious belief. Our analysis reveals 3 psychological dimensions of religious belief (God's perceived level of involvement, God's perceived emotion, and doctrinal/experiential religious knowledge), which functional MRI localizes within networks processing Theory of Mind regarding intent and emotion, abstract semantics, and imagery. Our results are unique in demonstrating that specific components of religious belief are mediated by well-known brain networks, and support contemporary psychological theories that ground religious belief within evolutionary adaptive cognitive functions.

A tendency toward abstract and overgeneral processing is a cognitive bias hypothesized to causally contribute to symptoms of depression. This hypothesis predicts that training dysphoric individuals to become more concrete and specific in their thinking would reduce depressive symptoms. To test this prediction, 60 participants with dysphoria were randomly allocated either to (a) concreteness training; (b) bogus concreteness training, matched with concreteness training for treatment rationale, experimenter contact, and treatment duration but without active engagement in concrete thinking; (c) a waiting-list, no training control. Concreteness training resulted in significantly greater decreases in depressive symptoms and significantly greater increases in concrete thinking than the waiting-list and the bogus training control, and significantly greater decreases in rumination than the waiting-list control. These findings suggest that concreteness training has potential as a guided self-help intervention for mild-to-moderate depressive symptoms.

This study examined the relation between sleep quality and cognitive performance in older adults, controlling for common medical comorbidities. Participants were community volunteers who, while not selected on the basis of their sleep, did report substantial variability in sleep quality. Good and poor sleepers differed on tests of working memory, attentional set shifting, and abstract problem solving but not on processing speed, inhibitory function, or episodic memory. Poor sleep was also associated with increased depressive symptomatology but only for functional symptoms (e.g., decreased concentration) and not for mood (e.g., sadness). The relationships between sleep quality and cognition were not explained by confound factors such as cerebrovascular disease, depression, or medication usage. Sleep problems may contribute to performance variability between elderly individuals but only in certain cognitive domains.

Trauma-related rumination has been shown to predict the maintenance of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, it is still unclear how rumination can be distinguished from functional forms of thinking about traumatic events. The current study used an analogue design to experimentally test the hypothesis that the abstractness of thinking is responsible for the dysfunctional effects of trauma-related rumination. Eighty-three healthy university students first watched a distressing video and were then randomly assigned to abstract ruminative thinking, concrete thinking or distraction. Abstract thinking was found to lead to a significantly longer maintenance of negative mood and arousal than both concrete thinking and distraction. These results are in line with earlier findings in the context of excessive worry and depressive rumination and support the view that abstractness is a critical factor for the dysfunctional effects of trauma-related rumination. However, results regarding intrusive memories were not supportive of the hypotheses. Unexpectedly, the distraction group showed the highest number of intrusions, whereas the abstract and concrete conditions did not significantly differ. Implications for theoretical models of trauma-related rumination and possible clinical implications are discussed.

This study tested the hypothesis that empathizing with out-group members is beneficial outside of, but not within, intergroup-contact situations. We predicted that in the context of intergroup interaction, the potential for evaluation would lead individuals' perspective-taking efforts to take on an egocentric and counterproductive flavor. As predicted, when empathy was instantiated during an intergroup exchange, it failed to exert its usual positive effect on intergroup attitudes and led higher-prejudice individuals to derogate an out-group member who was an interaction partner; empathy also blocked the prejudice-reducing influence of intergroup contact. Mediation analyses indicated that activation of negative metastereotypes regarding the out-group's view of the in-group accounted for these effects. The findings, which demonstrate ironic effects of empathy in intergroup interaction, indicate that interventions based on studies of individuals' reactions to out-group members in the abstract might have dramatically different consequences when put into practice in real exchanges between members of different groups.

Abstract Reviewing a series of articles in this special issue on combined treatment incorporating individual and group therapy, and in one instance couples therapy and a relationship group, the author provides a synoptic history of combined treatment, noting that the relational perspectives of psychoanalysis and systems theories of groups now provide conceptual frameworks for combined therapies. Taking up each article in turn, he considers that combined treatment poses particular problems while having certain advantages. He discusses the theoretical emphases and biases of each article, whether relational psychology, classical psychoanalysis, object relations theory, or self-psychology. He considers the roles of transference and countertransference, patient-therapist enactments, empathic attunement, "surrogate therapy" by the group members, and ethics in determining outcomes. In addition, the author notes how so-called difficult or regressed patients impact upon and are affected by the use of combined therapy modalities.

Abstract Recognizing disasters as traumatizing events that unfold with devastating physical and psychological sequalae, the author considers the interplay of individual and group treatment modalities in facilitating progression throughout stages of recovery. The stages-safety, remembering and mourning, and reconnection-are recognized as interrelated recovery processes that occur concurrently as well as sequentially throughout the treatment process. Drawing upon her 9/11 work with civilian and uniformed populations, the author describes the way in which group and individual therapies-whether conducted consecutively or concurrently, as single session, short-term, or long-term programs-work synergistically to foster recovery.

Abstract In some situations, combined psychotherapy may not be merely a choice, but a necessity for successful treatment. I present a case report of a hospitalized Vietnam veteran who had sexually abused one of his daughters. In individual therapy, the patient learned to speak about himself, his significant guilt, and his shame, in a trusting environment. After a year of outpatient individual work, I felt that the addition of group psychotherapy would help this withdrawn man to connect to a social milieu. Although anxious about self-disclosure and confidentiality, he joined a heterogeneous veterans' group, and came to reveal his secrets there. While he continued to use the individual sessions to broach painful issues, the group served to uncover material that had not emerged otherwise. The acceptance he experienced in the group expanded and cemented gains made in the dyad, which in turn made the ongoing group experience tolerable. His self-exposure and efforts at bonding and reparation catalyzed therapeutic movement for other members as well. The two modalities served to reinforce and make more powerful the effects of each. Therapeutic progress depended on the combined treatment-both were necessary, neither was sufficient.

Abstract Pornography, if understood to involve the depiction of sexual activity, organs, and experiences, is perhaps as old as human civilization itself. Historically linked to various technological innovations, pornography viewing in the Internet age has reached epic proportions, with large numbers of individuals taking advantage of ease of access, affordability, and presumed anonymity to explore sexual material online. Within the mental health professions substantial research exists on the effects of viewing general pornography; however, the distinctive effects of the marriage of pornography and cyberspace is only beginning to be examined. In addition to reviewing some historical and statistical material about pornography and the relevant psychiatric and psychoanalytic literature, four detailed clinical vignettes are presented to illustrate the types of problems related to Internet pornography use that are being presented to practicing psychotherapists.

We hypothesized that a tendency towards abstract, general and decontextualized processing is a cognitive distortion that causally contributes to symptoms of depression. This hypothesis predicts that training dysphoric individuals to become more concrete and specific in their thinking would reduce depressive symptoms. To test this prediction, participants with stable dysphoria (scoring > or =14 on BDI-II at 2 consecutive weekly assessments) were randomly allocated in an additive design either to an active intervention control consisting of relaxation training or relaxation training plus concreteness training. Concreteness training involved repeated mental exercises designed to encourage more concrete and specific thinking about emotional events. Both interventions involved a training session and then repeated daily use of compact disc recordings for 7 days. Relaxation training plus concreteness training resulted in significantly greater decreases in depressive symptoms and marginally significantly greater decreases in state rumination than relaxation training alone. These findings suggest the potential value of concreteness training as a guided self-help intervention for mild-to-moderate depressive symptoms.

Wisconsin Card Sorting Test is a psychological test designed to examine the working memory and the executive functions. The low scores in WCST point at disturbances in abstract reasoning, lack of flexibility in thinking and difficulties in changing reactions in response to the new stimulation from the surrounding. WCST is especially sensitive to the damages in the frontal lobe. WCST can be used in the individual examination of healthy adults, youths and children, and who people suffer from psychiatric disorders. The aim of the study is the analysis of using the WCST in psychological diagnosis of psychiatric and neurological patients who suffer from: schizophrenia, affective disorders and brain damage.

This study was undertaken using the INTEGRATE Model of brain organization, which is based on a temporal continuum of emotion, thinking and self regulation. In this model, the key organizing principle of self adaption is the motivation to minimize danger and maximize reward. This principle drives brain organization across a temporal continuum spanning milliseconds to seconds, minutes and hours. The INTEGRATE Model comprises three distinct processes across this continuum. Emotion is defined by automatic action tendencies triggered by signals that are significant due to their relevance to minimizing danger-maximizing reward (such as abrupt, high contrast stimuli). Thinking represents cognitive functions and feelings that rely on brain and body feedback emerging from around 200 ms post-stimulus onwards. Self regulation is the modulation of emotion, thinking and feeling over time, according to more abstract adaptions to minimize danger-maximize reward. Here, we examined the impact of dispositional factors, age and genetic variation, on this temporal continuum. Brain Resource methodology provided a standardized platform for acquiring genetic, brain and behavioral data in the same 1000 healthy subjects. Results showed a "paradox" of declining function in the "thinking" time scale over the lifespan (6 to 80+ years), but a corresponding preservation or even increase in automatic functions of "emotion" and "self regulation". This paradox was paralleled by a greater loss of grey matter in cortical association areas (assessed using MRI) over age, but a relative preservation of subcortical grey matter. Genetic polymorphisms associated with both healthy function and susceptibility to disorder (including the BDNFVal(66)Met, COMTVal(158/108)Met, MAOA and DRD4 tandem repeat and 5HTT-LPR polymorphisms) made specific contributions to emotion, thinking and self regulatory functions, which also varied according to age.

The ability to create and enjoy music is a universal human trait and plays an important role in the daily life of most cultures. Music has a unique ability to trigger memories, awaken emotions and to intensify our social experiences. We do not need to be trained in music performance or appreciation to be able to reap its benefits-already as infants, we relate to it spontaneously and effortlessly. There has been a recent surge in neuroimaging investigations of the neural basis of musical experience, but the way in which the abstract shapes and patterns of musical sound can have such profound meaning to us remains elusive. Here we review recent neuroimaging evidence and suggest that music, like language, involves an intimate coupling between the perception and production of hierarchically organized sequential information, the structure of which has the ability to communicate meaning and emotion. We propose that these aspects of musical experience may be mediated by the human mirror neuron system.

The orbitofrontal cortex represents the reward or affective value of primary reinforcers including taste, touch, texture, and face expression. It learns to associate other stimuli with these to produce representations of the expected reward value for visual, auditory, and abstract stimuli including monetary reward value. The orbitofrontal cortex thus plays a key role in emotion, by representing the goals for action. The learning process is stimulus-reinforcer association learning. Negative reward prediction error neurons are related to this affective learning. Activations in the orbitofrontal cortex correlate with the subjective emotional experience of affective stimuli, and damage to the orbitofrontal cortex impairs emotion-related learning, emotional behaviour, and subjective affective state. With an origin from beyond the orbitofrontal cortex, top-down attention to affect modulates orbitofrontal cortex representations, and attention to intensity modulates representations in earlier cortical areas of the physical properties of stimuli. Top-down word-level cognitive inputs can bias affective representations in the orbitofrontal cortex, providing a mechanism for cognition to influence emotion. Whereas the orbitofrontal cortex provides a representation of reward or affective value on a continuous scale, areas beyond the orbitofrontal cortex such as the medial prefrontal cortex area 10 are involved in binary decision-making when a choice must be made. For this decision-making, the orbitofrontal cortex provides a representation of each specific reward in a common currency.

There are few theoretical proposals that attempt to account for the variation in affective processing across different affective states of bipolar disorder (BD). The Interacting Cognitive Subsystems (ICS) framework has been recently extended to account for manic states. Within the framework, positive mood state is hypothesized to tap into an implicational level of processing, which is proposed to be more extreme in states of mania. Thirty individuals with BD and 30 individuals with no history of affective disorder were tested in euthymic mood state and then in induced positive mood state using the Question-Answer task to examine the mode of processing of schemas. The task was designed to test whether individuals would detect discrepancies within the prevailing schemas of the sentences. Although the present study did not support the hypothesis that the groups differ in their ability to detect discrepancies within schemas, we did find that the BD group was significantly more likely than the control group to answer questions that were consistent with the prevailing schemas, both before and after mood induction. These results may reflect a general cognitive bias, that individuals with BD have a tendency to operate at a more abstract level of representation. This may leave an individual prone to affective disturbance, although further research is required to replicate this finding.

Three studies explore the manner in which one's mood may affect the use and impact of accessible information on judgments. Specifically, the authors demonstrated that positive and negative moods differentially influence the direction of accessibility effects (assimilation, contrast) by determining whether abstract traits or concrete actor-trait links are primed. Study 1 investigated the impact of positive versus negative mood on the judgmental impact of trait-implying behaviors and found that positive moods lead to assimilation and negative moods to contrast. In Study 2, this effect was replicated in a subliminal priming paradigm. In Study 3, it was demonstrated that the type of information activated by trait-implying behaviors is indeed mood dependent, such that abstract trait information is activated in a positive mood, whereas specific actor-trait links are activated in a negative mood.

We describe development of the Beck Anxiety Inventory-Trait (BAIT), a measure of trait anxiety. In Study 1 with 191 undergraduates, the BAIT correlated higher with another trait-anxiety measure than with state anxiety and trait depressiveness and lower with depressiveness than the other trait-anxiety measure did. In Study 2 (Ns of 149 undergraduates initially and 107 at 3 weeks later), the BAIT demonstrated convergent validity against the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI; Beck, Epstein, Brown, & Steer, 1988) and self-rated trait anxiety plus discriminant validity against abstract curiosity. In Study 3 (Ns of 161 undergraduates initially and 121 at 3 weeks later), the BAIT correlated more highly with another anxiety measure than with depression, stress, positive affect, and negative affect. It also showed good internal consistency across studies and high stability in Studies 2 and 3, higher than the BAI's in Study 2. Factor analyses across studies all supported 2 factors, 1 Somatic and 1 Subjective.

Alcohol use disorders (AUDs) frequently co-occur with and exacerbate schizophrenia, yet the specific relationships between schizophrenia symptoms and alcohol use remain unclear. PANSS scores were correlated with measures of alcohol and other substance use in patients with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders and AUDs entering a trial of monitored naltrexone treatment. Data were analyzed from the first 80 participants; 55% had schizophrenia and 45% had schizoaffective disorder. All had AUDs; 95% had alcohol dependence and 5% alcohol abuse; 34% also had cannabis abuse/dependence and 31% cocaine abuse/dependence. PANSS Negative scores were inversely correlated with Addiction Severity Index alcohol composite scores, alcohol craving, quality of alcohol "high" (euphoria), and with frequency of cannabis use. An exploratory analysis indicated that the negative symptoms that may most strongly correlate with less alcohol use, craving and/or euphoria were passive/apathetic social withdrawal, blunted affect, difficulty in abstract thinking, and stereotyped thinking. Higher PANSS Composite scores, indicating the predominance of positive over negative PANSS symptoms, correlated with more alcohol craving and cannabis use. Higher PANSS General scores were associated with more alcohol craving. These findings extend previous reports of the association of negative schizophrenia symptoms with less alcohol and substance use to patients with AUDs and indicate that this relationship also includes less alcohol craving and less alcohol euphoria. The findings may also provide some initial evidence that specific negative symptoms may be keys to these relationships.

The amygdala's historical role in processing stimuli related to threat and fear is being modified to suggest a role that is broader and more abstract. Amygdala lesions impair the ability to seek out and make use of the eye region of faces, resulting in impaired fear perception. Other studies in rats and humans revive earlier proposals that the amygdala is important not only for fear perception as such, but also for detecting saliency and biological relevance. Debates about some features of this processing now suggest that while the amygdala can process fearful facial expressions in the absence of conscious perception, and while there is some degree of preattentive processing, this depends on the context and is not necessarily more rapid than cortical processing routes. A large current research effort extends the amygdala's putative role to a number of psychiatric illnesses.

The present study examined the roles of word concreteness and word valence in the immediate serial recall task. Emotion words (e.g. happy) were used to investigate these effects. Participants completed study-test trials with seven-item study lists consisting of positive or negative words with either high or low concreteness (Experiments 1 and 2) and neutral (i.e. non-emotion) words with either high or low concreteness (Experiment 2). For neutral words, the typical word concreteness effect (concrete words are better recalled than abstract words) was replicated. For emotion words, the effect occurred for positive words, but not for negative words. While the word concreteness effect was stronger for neutral words than for negative words, it was not different for the neutral words and the positive words. We conclude that both word valence and word concreteness simultaneously contribute to the item and order retention of emotion words and discuss how Hulme et al.'s (1997) item redintegration account can be modified to explain these findings.

In two experiments we tested the hypothesis that repeated exposure to out-group-relevant attitude objects would lead to less liking following a threat to identity. In Experiment 1 exposure to abstract artwork ostensibly created by a member of an out-group university led to more liking under baseline conditions, but not following a manipulation of threat. In Experiment 2 we observed a negative relationship between exposure and liking following threat: liking reversed the typical mere exposure effect. Reported emotion mediated the interactive effect of threat and exposure on liking. These findings illustrate how social identity threat can be experienced incrementally as a function of exposure. We discuss the findings in the context of an integration of research on exposure, identity, attitudes, and contact.

Three studies are reported showing that emotional responses to stress can be modified by systematic prior practice in adopting particular processing modes. Participants were induced to think about positive and negative scenarios in a mode either characteristic of or inconsistent with the abstract-evaluative mind-set observed in depressive rumination, via explicit instructions (Experiments 1 and 2) and via implicit induction of interpretative biases (Experiment 3), before being exposed to a failure experience. In all three studies, participants trained into the mode antithetical to depressive rumination demonstrated less emotional reactivity following failure than participants trained into the mode consistent with depressive rumination. These findings provide evidence consistent with the hypothesis that processing mode modifies emotional reactivity and support the processing-mode theory of rumination.

The current research extended to memories of others the life script theory of abstract, idealized mental representations of transitional experiences. Recent and earlier high school graduates rated positive and negative characteristics of popular, average, and unpopular girls from their schools. "Average" girls were rated as higher than average on possessing positive characteristics. Recent but not earlier graduates distinguished between popularity conditions on negative characteristics (negative information is not included in life scripts). For positive characteristics, earlier graduates remembered unpopular girls less favorably (perhaps using stereotypical scripts) than recent graduates remembered them (having greater access to episodic memories of individual girls). A smaller graduation time difference in the same direction resulted for average and popular girls.

The purpose of this study is to examine the value of one or two simple verbal questions in the detection of depression in cancer settings. This study is a systematic literature search of abstract and full text databases to January 2008. Key authors were contacted for unpublished studies. Seventeen analyses were found. Of these, 13 were conducted in late stage palliative settings. (1) Single depression question: across nine studies, the prevalence of depression was 16%. A single 'depression' question enabled the detection of depression in 160 out of 223 true cases, a sensitivity of 72%, and correctly reassured 964 out of 1166 non-depressed cancer sufferers, a specificity of 83%. The positive predictive value (PPV) was 44% and the negative predictive value (NPV) 94%. (2) Single interest question: there were only three studies examining the 'loss-of-interest' question, with a combined prevalence of 14%. This question allowed the detection of 60 out of 72 cases (sensitivity 83%) and excluded 394 from 459 non-depressed cases (specificity of 86%). The PPV was 48% and the NPV 97%. (3) Two questions (low mood and low interest): five studies examined two questions with a combined prevalence of 17%. The two-question combination facilitated a diagnosis of depression in 138 of 151 true cases (sensitivity 91%) and gave correct reassurance to 645 of 749 non-cases (specificity 86%). The PPV was 57% and the NPV 98%. Simple verbal methods perform well at excluding depression in the non-depressed but perform poorly at confirming depression. The 'two question' method is significantly more accurate than either single question but clinicians should not rely on these simple questions alone and should be prepared to assess the patient more thoroughly.

It has been suggested that overgeneral memory (OGM) represents a vulnerability marker for depression [Williams, J. M. G., Barnhofer, T., Crane, C., Hermans, D., Raes, F., Watkins, E., et al. (2007). Autobiographical memory specificity and emotional disorder. Psychological Bulletin, 133, 122-148]. One important underlying mechanism involved is rumination [e.g., Watkins, E., & Teasdale, J. D. (2001). Rumination and overgeneral memory in depression: Effects of self-focus and analytic thinking. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 110, 353-357; Watkins, E., & Teasdale, J. D. (2004). Adaptive and maladaptive self-focus in depression. Journal of Affective Disorders, 82, 1-8]. It is as yet unclear to what extent the relationship between rumination and OGM also applies to nonclinical groups. The present study investigated this relationship in a nonclinical student sample, using an innovative sentence completion procedure to assess OGM. As hypothesized, the experimental induction of a concrete, process-focused (or non-ruminative) thinking style (n=102) led to less OGMs as compared to the experimental induction of an abstract, evaluative (or ruminative) thinking style (n=93). The present results add to the accumulating body of evidence that abstract, evaluative (or ruminative) thinking is a crucial underlying process of OGM, and expand prior literature by extending this idea to nonclinical individuals and by using a new procedure to assess OGM.

The authors show that predispositions to approach and avoid do not consist simply of specific motor patterns but are more abstract functions that produce a desired environmental effect. It has been claimed that evaluating a visual stimulus as positive or negative evokes a specific motor response, extending the arm to negative stimuli, and contracting to positive stimuli. The authors showed that a large congruency effect (participants were faster to approach pleasant and avoid unpleasant stimuli, than to approach unpleasant and avoid pleasant stimuli) could be produced on a novel touchscreen paradigm (Experiment 1), and that the congruency effect could be reversed by spatial (Experiment 2) and nonspatial (Experiment 3) response effects. Thus, involuntary approach and avoid response activations are not fixed, but sensitive to context, and are specifically based on the desired goal.

Abstract A model of inpatient group psychotherapy that focuses on two frequently observed patient subgroups reflecting contrasting attitudes toward authority is presented. The counterdependent subgroup overly values autonomy, opposes unit restrictions, and rejects treatment. The dependent subgroup tends to accept the unit's treatment and structure but is overly passive. In this model these attitudes are addressed in order to help patients adapt to the unit and to facilitate discharge. The author describes a three-stage group designed to help patients achieve these goals.

Post-stroke hyperglycemia (HG) is associated with poor physical recovery, in particular in patients with cortical stroke. We tested whether HG is also associated with cognitive impairment after ischemic stroke. We recruited patients from a prospective consecutive cohort with a first-ever supratentorial infarct. Neuropsychological examination included abstract reasoning, verbal memory, visual memory, visual perception and construction, language, and executive functioning. We related HG (glucose >7.0 mmol/L) to cognition and functional outcome (modified Barthel Index) at baseline and after 6-10 months, and to neurological deficit (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) and infarct size at baseline. In additional analyses cortical and subcortical infarcts were considered separately. Of 113 patients, 43 had HG (38%) and 55 had cortical infarcts (49%). Follow-up was obtained from 76 patients (68%). In the acute phase, in patients with cortical infarcts HG was associated with impaired executive function (B=-0.65; 95% confidence limits (CL): -1.3-0.00; p<0.05), larger lesion size (p<0.01), and more severe neurological deficits (p<0.01). These associations were not observed in patients with subcortical infarcts and the association between HG and cognitive functioning at follow-up was not significant in either group. In first-ever ischemic stroke, HG was not associated with impaired cognition after 6-10 months. In the acute phase of stroke HG was associated with impaired executive function, but only in patients with cortical infarcts.

Everyone prefers health to ill-health, though some worry more about ill health than others and for others abstract health concerns seem to pale compared with the prospect of immediate hedonic pleasures. Two studies (n = 90, n = 70) utilized a 'fit' in self-regulatory focus approach (Higgins, 2000 ) to describe when and how worrying about health (versus focus on hedonic pleasure) is likely to lead to distinct health behaviors. According to this model, individuals differ in their self-regulatory focus-some focus on reaching safety and security through vigilant and careful action (prevention focus) and others focus on opportunities to eagerly approach hopes and aspirations (promotion focus). We proposed that likelihood of engaging in health care-taking behaviors is higher among individuals who experience 'prevention fit'--who are prevention-focused and are chronically or temporarily worried about health--whereas likelihood of engaging in eagerness-related behaviors that may be detrimental to health is higher among individuals who experience 'promotion fit'--who are promotion-focused and chronically or temporarily experience thrill seeking. Prevention fit correlated with health care-taking behaviors (Study 1) and with readiness to engage in cancer detection behaviors (Study 2). Promotion fit correlated with using stimulants to overcome physical weakness (Study 1).

Abstract The effect of affective group bibliotherapy (GB) was compared to affective group therapy (GT) on patients' functioning in therapy and their session impression. Three small groups totaling twenty-five in-patients in a hospital in Israel participated in the study. Clients concurrently participated in both group types, undergoing three sessions in each condition. In-therapy behaviors were assessed through the Client Behavior System (CBS; Hill & O'Brien, 1999). Results indicated that in the GB condition compared to the GT condition, clients showed less resistance, used simple responses less frequently, and expressed greater affective exploration. The Session Evaluation Questionnaire (SEQ; Stiles et al., 1994) was used to measure clients' impressions of the sessions. Results indicated that patients evaluated the two treatment conditions equally. Overall, the results support earlier findings, suggesting that affective bibliotherapy can be an effective method of treatment.

Depressive disorders are associated with various cognitive impairments. Studies on whether or not these impairments persist into the euthymic phase have shown conflicting results, due to differences in test versions and in study samples. In this paper, we aimed to compare the cognitive performance of remitted depressed patients with that of age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers across a wide range of cognitive domains. In two studies, we found few differences on neutral as well as emotional information processing tests. The findings indicate that remitted depressed patients who use antidepressant medication still show an increased recognition of facial expression of fear compared to healthy controls. Patients also performed worse on a test of recognition of abstract visual information from long-term memory. No other residual cognitive impairments were found. These results indicate that most of the cognitive impairments associated with depression resolve with recovery through medication, even when recovery is incomplete. Considering the finding that remitted depressed patients have higher levels of cognitive reactivity, future studies may investigate the possibility that these cognitive impairments have not resolved but have become latent, and may therefore easily be triggered by small changes in mood state.

In three experiments, match-to-sample procedures were used with undergraduates to establish arbitrary relational functions for three abstract visual stimuli. In the presence of samples A, B, and C, participants were trained to select the smallest, middle, and largest member, respectively, of a series of three-comparison arrays. In Experiment 1, the B (choose middle) stimulus was then used to train a steady rate of keyboard pressing before the A (choose smallest) and the C (choose largest) stimuli were presented. Participants pressed slower to A and faster to C than to B. Then B was paired with mild shock in a Pavlovian procedure with skin conductance change as the dependent variable. When presented with A and C, 6 of 8 experimental participants showed smaller skin conductance changes to A and larger skin conductance changes to C than to B. In Experiment 2, A was then used as a sample in a match-to-sample procedure to establish an arbitrary size ranking among four same-sized colored circle comparisons. One of the middle circles was then used to establish a steady rate of pressing before the other circles were presented. Five of 6 participants responded slower to the "smaller" circle and faster to the "larger" circle than they did to the "middle" circle. In Experiment 3, A, B, and C were then presented on a series of test trials requiring participants to pick the comparison that was less than, greater than, or equal to the sample. Novel stimuli were included on some trials. Results indicated that the relational training procedures produced derived relations among the stimuli used in training and that these allowed correct inferences of relative size ranking among novel stimuli.

Rimonabant is a selective type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonist. It may assist with smoking cessation by restoring the balance of the endocannabinoid system, which can be disrupted by prolonged use of nicotine. Rimonabant also seeks to address many smokers' reluctance to persist with a quit attempt because of concerns about weight gain. To determine whether selective CB1 receptor antagonists increase the numbers of people stopping smoking. To assess their effects on weight change in successful quitters and in those who try to quit but fail. We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Review Group specialized register for trials, using the terms 'rimonabant' and 'smoking' in the title or abstract, or as keywords. We also searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and PsycINFO, using major MESH terms. We acquired electronic or paper copies of posters of preliminary trial results presented at the American Thoracic Society Meeting in 2005, and at the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco European Meeting 2006. We also attempted to contact the authors of ongoing studies of rimonabant, and Sanofi Aventis (manufacturers of rimonabant). Types of studies: Randomized controlled trials. Adult smokers. Types of interventions: Selective CB1 receptor antagonists, such as rimonabant. Types of outcome measures: The primary outcome is smoking status at a minimum of six months after the start of treatment. We preferred sustained cessation rates to point prevalence, and biochemically verified cessation to self-reported quitting. We regarded smokers who drop out or are lost to follow up as continuing smokers. We have noted any adverse effects of treatment.A secondary outcome is weight change associated with the cessation attempt. Two authors checked the abstracts for relevance, and attempted to acquire full trial reports. One author extracted the data, and a second author checked them. We found three trials which met our inclusion criteria, covering 1567 smokers (cessation: STRATUS-EU and STRATUS-US), and 1661 quitters (relapse prevention: STRATUS-WW). At one year, the pooled odds ratio (OR) for quitting with rimonabant 20 mg was 1.61 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.12 to 2.30). No significant benefit was demonstrated for rimonabant at 5 mg dosage. Adverse events included nausea and upper respiratory tract infections. In the relapse prevention trial, smokers who had quit on the 20 mg regimen were 1(1/2) times more likely to remain abstinent on either active regimen than on placebo; the OR for the 20 mg maintenance group was 1.49 (95% CI 1.09 to 2.04, and for the 5 mg maintenance group 1.51 (95% CI 1.11 to 2.07). There appeared to be no significant benefit of maintenance treatment for the 5 mg quitters. Weight gain was reported to be significantly lower among the 20 mg quitters than in the 5 mg or placebo quitters. During treatment, overweight or obese smokers tended to lose weight, while normal weight smokers did not. From the preliminary trial reports available, rimonabant 20 mg may increase the odds of quitting approximately 1(1/2)-fold. Adverse events include nausea and upper respiratory tract infections; the risk of serious adverse events is reported to be low. However, there is current concern (August 2007) over rates of depression and suicidal thoughts in people taking rimonabant for weight control. The evidence for rimonabant in maintaining abstinence is inconclusive. Rimonabant 20 mg may moderate weight gain in the long term.

Abstract Affective judgments can often be influenced by emotional information people unconsciously perceive, but the neural mechanisms responsible for these effects and how they are modulated by individual differences in sensitivity to threat are unclear. Here we studied subliminal affective priming by recording brain potentials to surprise faces preceded by 30-msec happy or fearful prime faces. Participants showed valence-consistent changes in affective ratings of surprise faces, although they reported no knowledge of prime-face expressions, nor could they discriminate between prime-face expressions in a forced-choice test. In conjunction with the priming effect on affective evaluation, larger occipital P1 potentials at 145-175 msec were found with fearful than with happy primes, and source analyses implicated the bilateral extrastriate cortex in this effect. Later brain potentials at 300-400 msec were enhanced with happy versus fearful primes, which may reflect differential attentional orienting. Personality testing for sensitivity to threat, especially social threat, was also used to evaluate individual differences potentially relevant to subliminal affective priming. Indeed, participants with high trait anxiety demonstrated stronger affective priming and greater P1 differences than did those with low trait anxiety, and these effects were driven by fearful primes. Results thus suggest that unconsciously perceived affective information influences social judgments by altering very early perceptual analyses, and that this influence is accentuated to the extent that people are oversensitive to threat. In this way, perception may be subject to a variety of influences that govern social preferences in the absence of concomitant awareness of such influences.

In young adults, having a relatively long time perspective has been associated with a more abstract, holistic approach to cognitive tasks, as opposed to the more concrete, detailed approach associated with having a more limited or near-future focus ( Trope & Liberman, 2003). Here we studied the impact of age differences in temporal perspective on performance on a classic visual attention task ( Navon, 1977) that allowed for an orientation toward either detailed or holistic processing. Consistent with views on temporal perspective and cognition ( Liberman, Sagristano, & Trope, 2002), we found that younger adults were more likely than older adults to orient toward holistic processing.

To systematically identify quality measures and the evidence for them-to support quality assessment and improvement in the palliative care of patients with cancer in the areas of pain, dyspnea, depression, and advance care planning (ACP), and to identify important gaps in related research. MEDLINE, CINAHL, and PsycINFO in English 1995-2005. We also conducted an extensive Internet search of professional organizations seeking guidelines and other grey literature (i.e., not published in peer-reviewed journals) using similar terms and attempted to contact all measure developers. We searched using terms for each domain for patients (adults and children) with a cancer diagnosis throughout the continuum of care (e.g., diagnosis to death). Pain and depression searches were limited to cancer, but we searched broadly for dyspnea and ACP, because the evidence base for dyspnea is more limited and experts advised that ACP measures would be generalizable to cancer. Measures were included if they expressed a normative relationship to quality and included a measurable numerator and denominator. Citations and articles were each reviewed/abstracted by two of six palliative care researcher/clinicians who described populations, testing, and attributes for each measure. The literature search identified 5,187 titles, of which 4,650 were excluded at abstract review. Of 537 articles, only 25 contained measures: 21 on ACP, 4 on depression, 2 on dyspnea, and 12 on pain. Ten relevant measure sets were identified: ACOVE, QA Tools, Cancer Care Ontario, Cancer Care Nova Scotia, Dana-Farber, Georgia Cancer Coalition, University Health Consortium, NHPCO, VHA, and ASCO. We identified a total of 40 operationalized and 19 non-operationalized measures. The most measures were available for pain (12) and ACP (21), compared with only 4 for depression and 2 for dyspnea. Few of the measures were published, and few had been specifically tested in a cancer population. A large number of measures are available for addressing palliative cancer care, but testing them in relevant populations is urgently needed. No measures or indicators were available to evaluate the quality of supportive pediatric cancer care. Basic research is urgently needed to address measurement in populations with impaired self-report. Funding field testing of highest quality measures should be an urgent patient and family-centered priority to meet the needs of patients with cancer.

To assess the prevalence, course, and predictors of depression in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc). We conducted a comprehensive search in November 2006 of MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and CINAHL databases to identify original research studies published in any language that used a structured interview or validated questionnaire to assess major depressive disorder or clinically significant symptoms of depression in patients with SSc. The search was augmented by hand searching 26 selected journals through December 2006 and references from identified articles and reviews. Studies were excluded if only an abstract was provided or if depression was not measured by a validated method. No studies used a structured clinical interview to assess the prevalence of major depressive disorder. The prevalence of clinically significant depressive symptoms was 51-65% based on 2 studies that used a Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) score >or=10 and 46-56% based on 2 studies that used a BDI score >or=11. These rates and those reported in 4 other studies that used different assessment tools (36-43%) were consistently high compared with other medical patient groups assessed with the same instruments and cutoffs. Methodologic issues limited the ability to draw strong conclusions from studies of predictors. Symptoms of depression are common among patients with SSc. The high rates reported across studies suggest that routine screening is recommended. There is a need for studies that examine depression at different time points from the diagnosis of SSc and that systematically investigate factors associated with high levels of depressive symptoms.

Rimonabant is a selective type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonist. It may assist with smoking cessation by restoring the balance of the endocannabinoid system, which can be disrupted by prolonged use of nicotine. Rimonabant also seeks to address many smokers' reluctance to persist with a quit attempt because of concerns about weight gain. To determine whether selective CB1 receptor antagonists increase the numbers of people stopping smoking. To assess their effects on weight change in successful quitters and in those who try to quit but fail. We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Review Group specialized register for trials, using the terms 'rimonabant' and 'smoking' in the title or abstract, or as keywords. We also searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and PsycINFO, using major MESH terms. We acquired electronic or paper copies of posters of preliminary trial results presented at the American Thoracic Society Meeting in 2005, and at the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco European Meeting 2006. We also attempted to contact the authors of ongoing studies of rimonabant, and Sanofi Aventis (manufacturers of rimonabant). Types of studies: Randomized controlled trials. Adult smokers. Types of interventions: Selective CB1 receptor antagonists, such as rimonabant. Types of outcome measures: The primary outcome is smoking status at a minimum of six months after the start of treatment. We preferred sustained cessation rates to point prevalence, and biochemically verified cessation to self-reported quitting. We regarded smokers who drop out or are lost to follow up as continuing smokers. We have noted any adverse effects of treatment. A secondary outcome is weight change associated with the cessation attempt. Two authors checked the abstracts for relevance, and attempted to acquire full trial reports. One author extracted the data, and a second author checked them. We found three trials which met our inclusion criteria, covering 1567 smokers (cessation: STRATUS-EU and STRATUS-US), and 1661 quitters (relapse prevention: STRATUS-WW). At one year, the pooled odds ratio (OR) for quitting with rimonabant 20 mg was 1.61 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.12 to 2.30). No significant benefit was demonstrated for rimonabant at 5 mg dosage. Adverse events included nausea and upper respiratory tract infections. In the relapse prevention trial, smokers who had quit on the 20 mg regimen were 1(1/2) times more likely to remain abstinent on either active regimen than on placebo; the OR for the 20 mg maintenance group was 1.49 (95% CI 1.09 to 2.04, and for the 5 mg maintenance group 1.51 (95% CI 1.11 to 2.07). There appeared to be no significant benefit of maintenance treatment for the 5 mg quitters.Weight gain was reported to be significantly lower among the 20 mg quitters than in the 5 mg or placebo quitters. During treatment, overweight or obese smokers tended to lose weight, while normal weight smokers did not. From the preliminary trial reports available, rimonabant 20 mg may increase the odds of quitting approximately 1 and one-half-fold. Adverse events include nausea and upper respiratory tract infections; the risk of serious adverse events is reported to be low. The evidence for rimonabant in maintaining abstinence is inconclusive. Rimonabant 20 mg may moderate weight gain in the long term.

Current multidimensional models of women's sexual function acknowledge the implicit impact of psychosocial factors on women's sexual function. Interaction between human sexual function and intensity of love has been also assumed, even if love is not an absolute condition. Yet, whereas great insights have been made in understanding the central mechanisms of the peripheral manifestations of women's sexual response, including orgasm, the cerebral correlates sustaining the interaction between women's sexual satisfaction and the unconscious role of the partner in this interpersonal experience remain unknown. Using functional imaging, we assessed brain activity elicited when 29 healthy female volunteers were unconsciously exposed to the subliminal presentation of their significant partner's name (a task known to elicit a partner-related neural network) and correlated it with individual scores obtained from different sexual dimensions: self-reported partnered orgasm quality (ease, satisfaction, frequency), love intensity and emotional closeness with that partner. Behavioral results identified a correlation between love and self-reported partnered orgasm quality. The more women were in love/emotionally close to their partner, the more they tended to report being satisfied with the quality of their partnered orgasm. However, no relationship was found between intensity of love and partnered orgasm frequency. Neuroimaging data expanded these behavioral results by demonstrating the involvement of a specific left-lateralized insula focus of neural activity correlating with orgasm scores, irrespective of dimension (frequency, ease, satisfaction). In contrast, intensity of being in love was correlated with a network involving the angular gyrus. These findings strongly suggest that intimate and sexual relationships are sustained by partly different mechanisms, even if they share some emotional-related mechanisms. The critical correlation between self-reports of orgasm quality and activation of the left anterior insula, a part of the partner-related neural network known to play a pivotal role in somatic processes, suggests the importance of somatic information in the integration of sexual experience. On the other hand, the correlation between activation of the angular gyrus and love intensity reinforces the assumption that the representation of love calls for higher order cognitive levels, such as those related to the generation of abstract concepts. By highlighting the specific role of the anterior insula in the way women integrate components of physical satisfaction in the context of an intimate relationship with a partner, the current findings take a step in the understanding of a woman's sexual pleasure.

Throughout the ages, love has been defined as a motivated and goal-directed mechanism with explicit and implicit mechanisms. Recent evidence demonstrated that the explicit representation of love recruits subcorticocortical pathways mediating reward, emotion, and motivation systems. However, the neural basis of the implicit (unconscious) representation of love remains unknown. To assess this question, we combined event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with a behavioral subliminal priming paradigm embedded in a lexical decision task. In this task, the name of either a beloved partner, a neutral friend, or a passionate hobby was subliminally presented before a target stimulus (word, nonword, or blank), and participants were required to decide if the target was a word or not. Behavioral results showed that subliminal presentation of either a beloved's name (love prime) or a passion descriptor (passion prime) enhanced reaction times in a similar fashion. Subliminal presentation of a friend's name (friend prime) did not show any beneficial effects. Functional results showed that subliminal priming with a beloved's name (as opposed to either a friend's name or a passion descriptor) specifically recruited brain areas involved in abstract representations of others and the self, in addition to motivation circuits shared with other sources of passion. More precisely, love primes recruited the fusiform and angular gyri. Our findings suggest that love, as a subliminal prime, involves a specific neural network that surpasses a dopaminergic-motivation system.

Adolescent development is accompanied by the emergence of a population-wide increase in vulnerability to depression that is maintained through adulthood. We provide a model for understanding how this vulnerability to depression arises, and why depression is so often precipitated by social rejection or loss of status during this phase. There is substantial remodeling and maturation of the dopaminergic reward system and the prefrontal cortex during adolescence, that coincides with the adolescent entering the complex world of adult peer and romantic relationships, where the rewards that can be obtained (feelings such as belonging, romantic love, status and agency) are abstract and temporally distant from the proximal context. Development of the prefrontal cortex makes it possible to pursue such complex and distal rewards, which are, however, tenuous and more readily frustrated than more immediate rewards. We hypothesize that when these distant rewards are frustrated they suppress the reward system, and that when such suppression is extensive and occurs for long enough, the clinical picture that results is one of depression.

The present study was conducted to determine the functional neuroanatomical correlates of aesthetic experience using slow cortical potentials (SCPs). Thirty participants without any particular background in the fine arts were presented with various representational (semi-abstract) and abstract paintings dating from the 20th and 21st century in two experimental conditions, i.e. with or without stylistic information. The paintings had to be rated by the participants in terms of understanding and aesthetic qualities. In order to identify the cortical structures involved, the SCPs were subjected to current density analysis using low-resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). The comparison of representational and abstract paintings revealed significantly higher activation for representational artworks in several regions of the brain, predominantly in the left frontal lobe and bilaterally in the temporal lobes. According to the participants' reports, the representational artwork stimuli evoked more associations, accompanied by stronger activation of multimodal association areas in the temporal lobe. Furthermore, without stylistic information, the stimuli evoked stronger activation mainly in the left frontal and parietal lobes. Results also showed that stylistic information led to a better understanding of the paintings, but resulted in reduced cortical activation in the left hemisphere. This might have been due to less verbally oriented processing. These observations help explain the difficulties many beholders often have in appreciating abstract artworks.

Recent research by Aikman, Crites, and Fabrigar [(2006). Beyond affect and cognition: Identification of the informational bases of food attitudes. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 36, 340-382] suggests that food attitudes are comprised of five distinct informational bases: positive affect (e.g., calm, comforted), negative affect (e.g., guilty, ashamed), abstract cognitive qualities (e.g., healthy, natural), general sensory qualities (e.g., taste, smell), and specific sensory qualities (e.g., salty, greasy). The Aikman et al. (2006) research was conducted at a university on the US-Mexican border and consisted primarily of self-reported Latino participants. The present research replicates the previously identified food attitude structure at a university in the Northeast US with a sample primarily composed of self-reported Anglo American participants.

This article reviews reported results about the effects of drugs that act upon the serotonergic neurotransmission measured in three elevated mazes that are animal models of anxiety. A bibliographic search has been performed in MEDLINE using different combinations of the key words X-maze, plus-maze, T-maze, serotonin and 5-HT, present in the title and/or the abstract, with no time limit. From the obtained abstracts, several publications were excluded on the basis of the following criteria: review articles that did not report original results, species other than the rat, intracerebral drug administration alone, genetically manipulated rats, and animals having any kind of experimental pathology. The reported results indicate that the effect of drugs on the inhibitory avoidance task performed in the elevated T-maze and on the spatio temporal indexes of anxiety measured in the X and plus mazes correlate with their effect in patients diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder. In contrast, the drug effects on the one-way escape task in the elevated T-maze predict the drug response of panic disorder patients. Overall, the drug effects assessed with the avoidance task in the T-maze are more consistent than those measured through the anxiety indexes of the X and plus mazes. Therefore, the elevated T-maze is a promising animal model of generalized anxiety and panic disorder.

Event-related potentials (ERP) were recorded in two experiments to examine the effects of concreteness and emotionality on visual word processing. Concrete and abstract words of negative, neutral or positive valence, as well as pseudowords were presented in a hemifield lexical decision task. Experiment 1 yielded early (P2) and late (N400, late positive component/LPC) emotional word effects. Concreteness affected the N400 and the LPC. In line with the extended dual coding model and with previous studies, the N400 effect represents greater semantic activation, whereas the LPC effect may result from mental imagery being activated by concrete words. Experiment 2 engaged participants in a go/no-go task pressing a button for pseudowords. Here, emotionality and concreteness modulated the N400 independently, but interacted in the LPC time window. Only concrete emotional words differed in the LPC response suggesting that concrete negative words such as "wound" or "bomb" differ from neutral and positive words as a function of mental imagery.

Adolescence is a critical period for maturation of neurobiological processes that underlie higher cognitive functions and social and emotional behavior. Recent studies have applied new advances in magnetic resonance imaging to increase understanding of the neurobiological changes that occur during the transition from childhood to early adulthood. Structural imaging data indicate progressive and regressive changes in the relative volumes of specific brain regions, although total brain volume is not significantly altered. The prefrontal cortex matures later than other regions and its development is paralleled by increased abilities in abstract reasoning, attentional shifting, response inhibition and processing speed. Changes in emotional capacity, including improvements in affective modulation and discrimination of emotional cues, are also seen during adolescence. Functional imaging studies using cognitive and affective challenges have shown that frontal cortical networks undergo developmental changes in processing. In summary, brain regions that underlie attention, reward evaluation, affective discrimination, response inhibition and goal-directed behavior undergo structural and functional re-organization throughout late childhood and early adulthood. Evidence from recent imaging studies supports a model by which the frontal cortex adopts an increasingly regulatory role. These neurobiological changes are believed to contribute, in part, to the range in cognitive and affective behavior seen during adolescence.

Psychiatric/mental health (P/MH) nursing is inherently an interpersonal endeavour; one that includes a broad range of 'helping activities'. The interpersonal activities and skills are enshrined in our underpinning philosophy, explored and learned in our curricula (all around the world) and enacted in our everyday clinical practice. Within this interpersonal context and framework, it is heartening to see that understated, abstract and yet-lasting concepts such as hope are gaining more acknowledgement, recognition and subsequently attention. While it is recognized that hope in mental health care is increasingly becoming the focal point of disciplined inquiry, the authors believe it is perhaps necessary and timely to re-examine these two concepts, namely: interpersonal P/MH nursing and hope/inspiring hope in people with mental health problems. Accordingly, this two-part article reports on a systematic review of the literature that focuses on hope (inspiring hope) within interpersonal (counselling) focused P/MH nursing. Part one focuses on the method used and the results, indicating that a total of 57 articles were included in the review: 39 were categorized as empirical studies involving either a quantitative or qualitative methodological design, and 18 were considered theoretical/clinical/review articles. Though not a product of an empirical investigation per se, it was clear that many of the articles shared and covered common ground. Thus, these were arranged into six 'loose' thematic groupings. The first three of these areas, schizophrenia, suicidality and depression form the remainder of part one of this article, and the remaining areas are included in part two.

Although people with low self-esteem (LSEs) doubt their value to their romantic partners, they tend to resist positive feedback from their partners. This resistance undermines their relationships and has been difficult to overcome in past research. The authors investigated whether LSEs could be induced to take their partners' kind words to heart by manipulating how abstractly they described a recent compliment. In 3 studies, LSEs felt more positively about the compliments, about themselves, and about their relationships--as positively as people with high self-esteem (HSEs) felt--when they were encouraged to describe the meaning and significance of the compliments. The effects of this abstract meaning manipulation were still evident 2 weeks later. Thus, when prompted, LSEs can reframe affirmations from their partners to be as meaningful as HSEs generally believe them to be and, consequently, can feel just as secure and satisfied with their romantic relationships.

While humans possess a ready capacity to view a target (biological or otherwise) as an intentional agent (i.e. the 'intentional stance'), the conditions necessary for spontaneously eliciting these mentalizing processes are less well understood. Although research examining people's tendency to construe the motion of geometric shapes as intentional has done much to illuminate this issue, due to methodological limitations (a reliance on subjective self-report) this work has not fully addressed the potentially automatic and obligatory nature of mentalizing. Acknowledging this problem, recent research using prelinguistic infants, neuroimaging technology and methods that avoid explicit self-report all provide unique paths to circumvent this shortcoming. While work of this kind has generally corroborated the results of previous investigations, it has also raised a number of new issues. One such issue is whether spontaneous mentalizing processes for abstract non-biological stimuli are instantiated in the same neural architecture as those for realistic representations of intentional biological agents. This question is considered in the current chapter.

Can autistic individuals use motion cues to identify simple emotions from 2D abstract animations? We compared emotion recognition ability using a novel test involving computerised animations, and a more conventional emotion recognition test using facial expressions. Adults with autism and normal controls, matched for age and verbal IQ, participated in two experiments. First, participants viewed a series of short (5s) animations. These featured an 'emotional' triangle, interacting with a circle. They were designed to evoke an attribution of emotion to the triangle, which was rated both in terms of anger, happiness, sadness or fear from its pattern of movement, and how animate ("living") it appeared to be. Second, emotion recognition was tested from standardised photographs of facial expressions. In both experiments, adults with autism were significantly impaired relative to comparisons in their perception of sadness. This is the first demonstration that, in autism, individuals can have difficulties both in the interpretation of facial expressions and in the recognition of equivalent emotions based on the movement of abstract stimuli. Poor performance in the animations task was significantly correlated with the degree of impairment in reciprocal social interaction, assessed by the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule. Our findings point to a deficit in emotion recognition in autism, extending beyond the recognition of facial expressions, which is associated with a functional impairment in social interaction skills. Our results are discussed in the context of the results of neuroimaging studies that have used animated stimuli and images of faces.

Measuring quality of care for symptom management and ascertaining patient goals offers an important step toward improving palliative cancer management. This study was designed to identify systematically the quality measures and the evidence to support their use in pain, dyspnea, depression, and advance care planning (ACP), and to identify research gaps. English-language documents were selected from MEDLINE, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health, PsycINFO (1995 to 2005); Internet-based searches; and contact with measure developers. We used terms for each domain to select studies throughout the cancer care continuum. We included measures that expressed a normative relationship to quality, specified the target population, and specified the indicated care. Dual data review and abstraction was performed by palliative care researchers describing populations, testing, and attributes for each measure. A total of 4,599 of 5,182 titles were excluded at abstract review. Of 537 remaining articles, 19 contained measures for ACP, six contained measures for depression, five contained measures for dyspnea, and 20 contained measures for pain. We identified 10 relevant measure sets that included 36 fully specified or fielded measures and 14 additional measures (16 for pain, five for dyspnea, four for depression, and 25 for ACP). Most measures were unpublished, and few had been tested in a cancer population. We were unable to describe the specifications of all measures fully and did not search for measures for pain and depression that were not cancer specific. Measures are available for assessing quality and guiding improvement in palliative cancer care. Existing measures are weighted toward ACP, and more nonpain symptom measures are needed. Additional testing is needed before the measures are used for accountability, and basic research is required to address measurement when self-report is impaired.

The concept of sense of belonging as connectedness is an abstract dimension of relatedness. Gaining an understanding of this concept within a cultural worldview has the potential to positively impact the mental health of ethnic minority populations. Sense of belonging as connectedness portrays the dynamic nature of human existence. The role of sense of belonging to interpersonal relationships and the well-being of individuals, family, and community is emphasized through the worldview of the American Indian population. It is a dynamic phenomenon of social significance.

Watkins (2004) found that the mode of processing adopted during expressive writing following a failure influenced emotional recovery from the failure as a function of level of trait rumination. At higher levels of trait rumination, negative mood 12 hours after the failure was greater, but only in an abstract, evaluative writing condition and not in a concrete, process-focused condition. The current study examined whether this interaction of trait rumination with processing mode would generalize to emotional vulnerability to a subsequent negative stressor. Participants repeatedly focused on both positive and negative scenarios in either a concrete, process-focused or an abstract, evaluative mode, before a failure experience. As predicted, after the failure experience, higher levels of trait rumination were associated with lower levels of positive affect, but only for participants in the abstract, evaluative condition and not for participants in the concrete, process-focused condition. This finding is consistent with processing mode influencing the relationship between trait rumination and emotional vulnerability.

Previous studies have failed to distinguish the differential contribution of major and minor depression to cognitive impairment in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). This study was aimed at investigating the relationships among major depression (MD), minor depression (MiD) and neuropsychological deficits in PD. Eighty-three patients suffering from PD participated in the study. MD and MiD were diagnosed by means of a structured interview (SCID-I) based on the DSM-IV criteria, and severity of depression was evaluated by the Beck Depression Inventory. For the neuropsychological assessment, we used standardized scales that measure verbal and visual episodic memory, working memory, executive functions, abstract reasoning and visual-spatial and language abilities. MD patients performed worse than PD patients without depression on two long-term verbal episodic memory tasks, on an abstract reasoning task and on three measures of executive functioning. The MiD patients' performances on the same tests fell between those of the other two groups of PD patients but did not show significant differences. Our results indicate that MD in PD is associated with a qualitatively specific neuropsychological profile that may be related to an alteration of prefrontal and limbic cortical areas. Moreover, the same data suggest that in these patients MiD and MD may represent a gradual continuum associated with increasing cognitive deficits.

Three studies examined non-Aboriginal Australians' guilt and anger about their ingroup's advantage over structurally disadvantaged Aborigines. Study 1 showed that participants who perceived their ingroup as relatively advantaged perceived this inequality as unfair and felt guilt and anger about it. Anger, and to a lesser degree guilt, predicted the willingness to engage in political action regarding ingroup advantage. Study 2 showed both guilt and anger to be relatively self-focused because both were associated with appraising the ingroup's (rather than the government's) discrimination as responsible for ingroup advantage. Study 3 examined on participants especially willing to engage in political action to bring about systemic compensation to Aborigines. Anger about ingroup advantage was a potent predictor. Although guilt was associated with the abstract goal of systemic compensation, guilt did not explain willingness for political action. Results underline the importance of examining specific group-based emotions in intergroup relations.

The effects of prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) on measures of intelligence have been well documented in children with fetal alcohol syndrome. However, deficits in general intellectual ability in children with low to moderate PAE are less well understood. The objective of this study was to assess the association between moderate PAE and cognitive ability in children at age 10 controlling for other prenatal and birth factors, maternal and child psychosocial factors, and environmental characteristics. Data were collected as part of the Maternal Health Practices and Child Development Project, a prospective study of prenatal substance use with 636 mother-child pairs. Women were assessed during each trimester of pregnancy and with their children at birth; 8 and 18 months; and 3, 6, and 10 years. Each phase included an evaluation of growth, development, cognitive, and psychological functioning. At age 10, cognitive ability was assessed using the composite score and verbal, abstract/visual, quantitative, and short-term memory area scores of the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Test, fourth edition. Maternal intellectual ability, maternal prenatal and current drug use, maternal and child psychosocial characteristics, demographics, and home environment were included in the analysis. A significant relation was found between alcohol exposure during the first and second trimesters and the composite score of the Stanford-Binet for African American children at age 10. Significant relations were also found for the verbal, abstract/visual, and quantitative subscales. Additional predictors of IQ at age 10 included mother's IQ, home environment, and child's report of depression. There is a significant association between PAE and cognitive ability at age 10 among African American offspring. There was no relation between PAE and scores on the Stanford-Binet scales among the Caucasian offspring.

To evaluate the health-related quality of life in myotonic dystrophy type 1 and its relationships with clinical, genetic, neuropsychological and emotional factors. Case-control study of a continuous series of patients with myotonic dystrophy type 1. Twenty patients, and 20 age-, sex- and education-matched healthy controls underwent the MOS 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), an extensive neuropsychological battery and emotional functioning tests. Patients' SF-36 mean scores were lower than those of controls in all dimensions. The neuropsychological study showed a significant impairment in visuospatial and verbal abstract reasoning (p=0.001), visuospatial memory (p=0.002) and attentive functions (p=0.03) in patients with myotonic dystrophy type 1. The emotional assessment showed significantly high scores in anxiety (p=0.002) and depression (p=0.001), which occurred in approximately 50% of patients. Both physical and mental SF-36 areas were inversely correlated with age, duration and grade of disease, depression and anxiety and positively correlated with attentive control. SF-36 areas were not correlated with cytosine thymine guanidine expansion. Health-related quality of life is severely impaired in myotonic dystrophy type 1 and it is negatively influenced by severity and duration of disease as well as by specific cognitive deficits and changes in emotional functioning. Therapeutic intervention in this field could contribute to ameliorate health-related quality of life in myotonic dystrophy type 1.

Elevated power increases the psychological distance one feels from others, and this distance, according to construal level theory, should lead to more abstract information processing. Thus, high power should be associated with more abstract thinking-focusing on primary aspects of stimuli and detecting patterns and structure to extract the gist, as well as categorizing stimuli at a higher level-relative to low power. In 6 experiments involving both conceptual and perceptual tasks, priming high power led to more abstract processing than did priming low power, even when this led to worse performance. Experiment 7 revealed that in line with past neuropsychological research on abstract thinking, priming high power also led to greater relative right-hemispheric activation.

People with learning disabilities often have difficulties understanding abstract concepts such as the concept of time yet research in this area is scarce. Not only does the development of an understanding of the concept of time enable us to predict future events, order past events and give us a sense of control over current events, it also serves to contribute to the very essence of our understanding of a sense of ourselves. It seems reasonable to suggest that the converse may be true for people who are not able to develop this concept. Time perception and understanding are complex cognitive processes. It is suggested that facilitating this development and managing associated difficulties may be achieved by focusing on the practical applications of time in everyday life. Improving time perception abilities may reduce feelings of powerlessness and anxiety and increase feelings of self-efficacy but research is needed to evaluate this.

It is increasingly asserted that the disagreements of abstract principle between adversaries in the euthanasia debate fail to account for the complex, particular and ambiguous experiences of people at the end of their lives. A greater research effort into experiences, meaning, connection, vulnerability, and motivation is advocated, during which the euthanasia 'question' should remain open. I argue that this is a normative strategy, which is felicitous to the status quo and further medicalises the end of life, but which masquerades as a value-neutral assertion about needing more knowledge.

Abstract ethics mostly focuses on what we do. One form of action is a speech act. What we say can have profound effects. We can and should choose our words and how we speak wisely. When someone close to us suffers an injury or serious illness, a duty of beneficence requires that we support that person through beneficial words or actions. Though our intentions are most often benign, by what we say we often make the unfortunate person feel worse. Beginning with two personal accounts, this article explains what can go wrong in the compassionate speech of wellwishers, and uncovers some of the reasons why people say things that are hurtful or harmful. Despite a large body of clinical evidence, there is no perfect strategy for comforting a friend or relative who is ill, and sometimes even the best thing to say can still be perceived as insensitive and hurtful. In some cases, we may have good reason to knowingly say a hurtful or insensitive thing. Saying these 'wrong' things can sometimes be the best way to help a person in the long term. To complicate matters, there can be moral reasons for overriding what is good for the patient. What kind of admonishments should we make to a badly behaved patient? What is the value of authenticity in our communication with the people we love? These questions demand an ethical defence of those speech acts which are painful to hear but which need to be said, and of those which go wrong despite the best efforts of the wellwisher. We offer an ethical account, identifying permissible and impermissible justifications for the things we say to a person with a serious injury or illness.

Studies of anxiety suggest that threat stimuli can be identified preattentively, but this conclusion is questionable because of possible low-level perceptual confounds. Two experiments used visual search tasks in which abstract shapes were conditioned to carry neutral or negative valence. Experiment 1 found generally faster responses to threat-associated abstract stimuli but no evidence that they were detected preattentively, irrespective of trait anxiety level. A similar pattern was found in Experiment 2, in which individuals high in snake or spider fear showed no evidence of preattentive detection of abstract stimuli associated with their feared object. In contrast, implicit behavioral measures showed significant effects of conditioning, demonstrating that targets associated with threat were negatively evaluated in these experiments.

This longitudinal study of 600 families concentrates on the influence of parental anti-smoking socialization by examining both (a) the effects of eight indicators of anti-smoking socialization on adolescent smoking and (b) the influence of parental smoking on the effectiveness of their anti-smoking socialization. Robust differences between smoking and non-smoking parents demonstrated that both kinds of families hold different norms and attitudes about adolescent smoking and how to deal with it. In terms of effective anti-smoking socialization, it appeared that parental involvement on a more abstract level, such as feeling confident one has influence on the smoking behaviour of one's child and having knowledge whether one's child and his or her friends smoke, seemed important in preventing early adolescent smoking, while concrete communication or house rules about smoking were not.

There is evidence that presenting titles together with artworks affects their processing. We investigated whether elaborative and descriptive titles change the appreciation and understanding of paintings. Under long presentation times (90 s) in Experiment 1, testing representative and abstract paintings, elaborative titles increased the understanding of abstract paintings but not their appreciation. In order to test predictions concerning the time course of understanding and aesthetic appreciation [Leder, H., Belke, B., Oeberst, A., & Augustin, D. (2004). A model of aesthetic appreciation and aesthetic judgments. British Journal of Psychology, 95(4), 489-508] in Experiment 2, abstract paintings were presented under two presentation times. For short presentation times (1 s), descriptive titles increased the understanding more than elaborative titles, whereas for medium presentation times (10 s), elaborative titles increased the understanding more than descriptive titles. Thus, with artworks a presentation time of around 10 s might be needed, to assign a meaning beyond the mere description. Only at medium presentation times did the participants with more art knowledge have a better understanding of the paintings than participants with less art knowledge. Thus, it seems that art knowledge becomes significant, if there is sufficient time to assign a meaning and the present studies reveal the importance of considering the time course in aesthetic appreciation.

Recent studies suggest that there are multiple 'reward' or 'reward-like' systems that control food seeking; evidence points to two distinct learning processes and four modulatory processes that contribute to the performance of food-related instrumental actions. The learning processes subserve the acquisition of goal-directed and habitual actions and involve the dorsomedial and dorsolateral striatum, respectively. Access to food can function both to reinforce habits and as a reward or goal for actions. Encoding and retrieving the value of a goal appears to be mediated by distinct processes that, contrary to the somatic marker hypothesis, do not appear to depend on a common mechanism but on emotional and more abstract evaluative processes, respectively. The anticipation of reward on the basis of environmental events exerts a further modulatory influence on food seeking that can be dissociated from that of reward itself; earning a reward and anticipating a reward appear to be distinct processes and have been doubly dissociated at the level of the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, the excitatory influence of reward-related cues can be both quite specific, based on the identity of the reward anticipated, or more general based on its motivational significance. The influence of these two processes on instrumental actions has also been doubly dissociated at the level of the amygdala. Although the complexity of food seeking provides a hurdle for the treatment of eating disorders, the suggestion that these apparently disparate determinants are functionally integrated within larger neural systems may provide novel approaches to these problems.

Perception of intentions and dispositions of others is an essential ingredient of adaptive daily-life social behaviour. Dynamics of moving images leads to veridical perception of social attributes. Anecdotal observations in art, science, and popular culture indicate that dynamic imbalance can be revealed in static images. Here, we ask whether perceived dynamics of abstract figures is related to emotional attribution. Participants first estimated instability of geometric shapes rotated in 15 degrees steps in the image plane, and then rated the intensity of basic emotions that can be ascribed to the figures. We found no substantial link between the deviation of the figures from the vertical orientation and perceived instability. Irrespective of shape, a strong positive correlation was found between negative emotions and perceived instability. By contrast, positive emotions were inversely linked with deviation of the figure from vertical orientation. The work demonstrates for the first time that dynamics conveyed by static images enables specific emotional attributions, and agrees well with the assumption that neural networks for production of movements and understanding the dispositions of others are intimately linked. The findings are also of importance for exploring the ability to reveal social properties through dynamics in normal and abnormal development, for example in patients with early brain injury or autistic spectrum disorders.

When one mentions the word, "management," people all too easily conclude that one is referring to the question of how to create profit for a business enterprise. This is because, in business, that is indeed the precise purpose of management. So what should the aim of management be in nursing? That is to say, how does the function of management apply to the nursing profession? It is not difficult to understand that behind the implementation of any practice is a key thought or guiding principle. To investigate the central idea or key thought about nursing management requires research into the philosophy of nursing management. The writer believes that the teaching of Mo-tzu, who advocated love without distinction, in ancient (pre-Chin) China, is the fundamental idea of nursing management, because that philosophy emphasizes impartial love of every person. It does not stress investigations of different levels of abstract theories; but simply calls for the practical application of the idea. The goal of nursing management is to care about patients impartially and strengthen nursing care. The aim of nursing care is completely different from that of business enterprises. We can also say that it is precisely because nursing means taking care of sick people, that the goal of nursing management is to care about achieving the recovery of body, mind, and spirit of a patient. The management of nursing, therefore, and the goal of nursing are united harmoniously into one in nursing care.

In this paper three computer models are summarized discussing different functions of the cortico-hippocampal system. Mood regulation, rhythm and code generation and navigation are integrated into a coherent conceptual framework around the concepts of structural hierarchy and circular causality. First, a model of spatio-temporal code generation is reviewed in which the hippocampal population theta rhythm plays an important role. Next, generation and pharmcological modulation of this rhythm is examined using a computer model of multiple cell populations forming a feed-back loop within the hippocampus and between the septum and the hippocampus. Last, an abstract, but biologically motivated model of navigation is described which achieves a near optimal mode of navigation by composing hierarchical levels of the cortico-hippocampal system. The connections among the different hierarchical structures of the cortico-hippocampal organization and their functional roles are discussed.

One account for the negative effects of rumination on social problem solving (SPS) is the symptom-focus hypothesis, which proposes that focus on symptoms amplifies the vicious cycle between depressed mood and negative cognition. The authors tested a contrasting account, the reduced concreteness hypothesis, which postulates that the abstract thinking typical of rumination impairs SPS. In 40 depressed patients and 40 never-depressed controls, SPS was assessed before and after versions of symptom-focused rumination known to differentially induce abstract versus concrete self-focus (E. Watkins & J. D. Teasdale, 2001). As predicted by reduced concreteness theory, relative to abstract self-focus, concrete self-focus improved SPS in depressed patients, suggesting that the particular mode of symptom-focus, rather than symptom-focus per se, determines the effects of rumination on problem solving.

Higgins (1997, 1998) proposed two self-regulatory or motivational systems--one sensitive to gains (promotion) and one sensitive to losses (prevention). To examine the interaction of motivation and cognition, participants made good/bad or abstract/concrete judgments about concepts during fMRI scanning. After scanning, participants rated the extent to which each stimulus was good and bad and completed a questionnaire that measured promotion/prevention orientation. For each participant, contrast maps were generated representing the association between neural processing and stimulus valence (good/bad), and these factors were then regressed against participants' promotion and prevention focus scores. For the good/bad but not for the abstract/concrete task, promotion focus was associated with greater activity in the amygdala, anterior cingulate, and extrastriate cortex for positive stimuli, and prevention focus was associated with activity in the same regions for negative stimuli; these results are consistent with the hypothesis that the way in which evaluative information is processed is influenced by individual differences in self-regulatory focus.

Depression is associated with reduced brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) function and with cognitive dysfunctions. A diet rich in alpha-lactalbumin protein has been found to increase the ratio tryptophan /large neutral amino acids (Trp/SigmaLNAA), and to improve cognitive functioning in individuals with high neuroticism scores. Since cognitive dysfunctions sometimes persist after remission of depression, the present study investigated the effects of alpha-lactalbumin-enriched diet on cognition in recovered depressed patients. Twenty-three recovered depressed patients and 20 healthy matched controls without a history of depression consumed meals rich in alpha-lactalbumin or casein protein in a double-blind crossover design. Mood, cognitive function and plasma amino acids were assessed at both sessions before and after dietary intake. Alpha-lactalbumin protein had no effect on mood, but improved abstract visual memory and impaired simple motor performance. These effects were independent of history of depression. Supplements of lactalbumin may be useful for nutrition research in relation to age- or disease-related memory decline. The present findings should be further examined in different (e.g. medicated) samples. The long-term effects of alpha-lactalbumin should also be investigated.

This article considers the ethical guidelines concerning autonomy, negotiated consent and transparency in relation to an ethnography of psychiatry. It suggests that the complexities and unequal power distribution of the psychiatric consultation make these guidelines difficult to apply. Rather an attempt is made to develop an ethics of patient acknowledgement even where this presents ethical misgivings vis-à-vis psychiatrists. I argue for the importance of ethnography rather than the instantiation of abstract principles to the development of an ethical perspective.

Two experiments examined the psychological operations that enable individuals to process negative emotions and experiences without increasing negative affect. In Study 1, type of self-perspective (self-immersed vs. self-distanced) and type of emotional focus (what vs. why) were experimentally manipulated following the recall of an anger-eliciting interpersonal experience. A why focus on emotions from a self-distanced perspective (distanced-why strategy) was expected to enable "cool," reflective processing of emotions, in which individuals can focus on their experience without reactivating excessive "hot" negative affect. Findings were consistent with this hypothesis. Study 2 replicated these findings and furthermore demonstrated that (a) the degree to which individuals construe their recalled experience in abstract versus concrete terms mediates the effect of the distanced-why strategy and (b) the status of the recalled experience (resolved vs. unresolved) does not moderate the effectiveness of the distanced-why strategy. These findings help disentangle the mechanisms that may allow adaptive working through from those that lead to rumination.

A bibliographic search has been performed in MEDLINE using cortisol and panic as key-words, occurring in the title and/or in the abstract. Human studies were selected, with no time limit. The following publications were excluded: review articles, case reports, panic attacks in disorders other than panic disorder, and studies on changes that occurred in-between panic attacks. The results showed that real-life panic attacks as well as those induced by selective panicogenic agents such as lactate and carbon dioxide do not activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Agonists of the colecystokinin receptor B, such as the colecystokinin-4 peptide and pentagastrin, increase stress hormones regardless of the occurrence of a panic attack and thus, seem to activate the HPA axis directly. The benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil does not increase stress hormones, but this agent does not reliably induce panic attacks. Pharmacological agents that increased anxiety in both normal subjects and panic patients raised stress hormone levels; among them are the alpha2-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine, the serotonergic agents 1-(m-chlorophenyl) piperazine (mCPP) and fenfluramine, as well as the psychostimulant agent caffeine. Therefore, the panic attack does not seem to activate the HPAaxis, in contrast to anticipatory anxiety.

Because the average human life span has increased, a greater part of more women's lives will be lived in a hypoestrogenic state. This article provides an overview of our current knowledge of the neuroendocrine processes in the aging female brain. Using the search terms cardiovascular disease, cognition, dementia, depression, estrogens, female aging, gonadotropins, immune function, mood, neuroendocrinology, neurotransmitters, osteoporosis, and ovarian steroids, a review of English-language literature on the MEDLINE database was conducted from 1970 through June 2004. It is thought that the temporal patterns of neural signals are altered during middle age, leading to cessation of reproductive cycles, and that the complex interplay of ovarian and hypothalamic/pituitary pacemakers becomes increasingly dysfunctional with aging, ultimately resulting in menopause. Estrogen deficiency is associated with low mood, whereas estrogen therapy tends to be linked with improvements in measures of well-being and a decline in depression scores. It is likely that these effects of estrogens are mediated through changes in the metabolism of serotonin and nor epinephrine. Evidence exists to support the role of estrogens in specific effects on cognitive functioning in women, enhancing aspects of verbal memory, abstract reasoning, and information processing. Significant gender dimorphism is evident in both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. The effects of estrogens on the cardiovascular system are complex; recent evidence suggests a negative role for oral estrogen in primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. Additionally, estrogens increase the risk of stroke, and estrogen deficiency influences the pathogenesis of osteoporosis in both men and women. Changes in the neuroendocrine system due to the loss of ovarian function at menopause have an important biological role in the control of reproductive and nonreproductive functions, and regulate mood, memory, cognition, behavior, immune function, the locomotor system, and cardiovascular functions. More detailed insights are needed into the complex mechanisms of neuroendocrine alterations with aging.

Over the last decade, an increasing number of research studies have focused on the construct of Emotional Intelligence (EI), which may be broadly defined as the capacity to perceive and regulate emotions in oneself as well as those of others. Researchers have generally adopted an organizational or management focus to the study of EI, however studies which adopt a more integrated perspective by combining psychological with biological measures, may help in further elucidating this relatively abstract construct. The first objective of this paper was to report on the psychometric properties of a brief, self-report measure of EI (Brain Resource Inventory for Emotional intelligence Factors or BRIEF), comprising internal emotional capacity (IEC), external emotional capacity (EEC) and self concept (SELF). Second, we further explored the validity of the measure by assessing the relationships between the BRIEF and variables considered relevant to the understanding of EI (including gender, age, personality, cognitive intelligence and resting state electroencephalography, EEG). The BRIEF possessed sound psychometric properties (internal consistency, r=0.68-0.81; test-retest reliability, r=0.92; construct validity with the Self Report Emotional Intelligence Test, r=0.70). As hypothesized, females were found to score higher than males on EI. EI was associated more with personality than with cognitive ability, and EEG was found to explain a significant portion of the variance in EI scores. The finding that low EI is related to underarousal of the left-frontal cortex (increased theta EEG) is consistent with research on patients with depression, as well as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Although EI did not display age-related increases, this might relate to the exclusion of adolescents from our sample. In conclusion, examination of the way in which EI measures relate to a complementary range of psychological and biological measures may help to further elucidate this construct.

The authors examined the evolution of cognitive and emotional responses to terror risks for a nationally representative sample of Americans between late 2001 and late 2002. Respondents' risk judgments changed in ways consistent with their reported personal experiences. However, they did not recognize these changes, producing hindsight bias in memories for their judgments. An intensive debiasing procedure failed to restore a foresightful perspective. A fear-inducing manipulation increased risk estimates, whereas an anger-inducing manipulation reduced them-both in predictions (as previously observed) and in memories and judgments of past risks. Thus, priming emotions shaped not only perceptions of an abstract future but also perceptions of a concrete past. These results suggest how psychological research can help to ensure an informed public.

Abstract-After the airplane attacks of September 11, 2001, in the United States, many Americans drove instead of flying, to avoid the risk of terrorism. As a result, there were extra car accidents in which many people died. This study tested whether a similar effect occurred in Spain after the train bombings of March 11, 2004, in Madrid. Data on train travel, highway traffic, and fatal highway accidents were analyzed for the months immediately following March 11. Results show that, like Americans, Spaniards avoided the dread risk of terror attacks, but unlike Americans, they did not confront the death risk of fatal accidents instead. A sociopolitical interpretation for these findings is offered.

Comparisons of emotional evaluations of abstract stimuli just seen in a two-object visual search task show that prior distractors are devalued, as compared with prior targets or novel items, perhaps as a consequence of persistent attentional inhibition (Raymond, Fenske, & Tavassoli, 2003). To further explore such attention-emotion effects, we measured search response time in a preview search task and emotional evaluations of colorful, complex images just seen therein. On preview trials, the distractors appeared 1,000 msec before the remaining items. On no-preview trials, all the items were presented simultaneously. A single distractor was then rated for its emotional tone. Previewed distractors were consistently devalued, as compared with nonpreviewed distractors, despite longer exposure and being associated with an easier task. This effect was observed only in the participants demonstrating improved search efficiency with preview, but not in others, indicating that the attentional mechanisms underlying the preview benefit have persistent affective consequences in visual search.

Abstract-Numerous studies have documented the potential for victim-blaming attributions to justify the status quo. Recent work suggests that complementary, victim-enhancing stereotypes may also increase support for existing social arrangements. We seek to reconcile these seemingly contradictory findings by proposing that victim derogation and victim enhancement are alternate routes to system justification, with the preferred route depending on the perception of a causal link between trait and outcome. Derogating "losers" (and lionizing "winners") on traits (e.g., intelligence) that are causally related to outcomes (e.g., wealth vs. poverty) serves to increase system justification, as does compensating "losers" (and downgrading "winners") on traits (e.g., physical attractiveness) that are causally unrelated to those outcomes. We provide converging evidence using system-threat and stereotype-activation paradigms.

The trend of mental and somatic diseases was studied in 70 patients with epidemic goiter (EG) treated with L-thyroxine or iodides during 1-5-year follow-up. Borderline mental disorders (diminished memory and attention, emotional and intellectual disorders) were found to be stable in these patients. The most delicate functions of the brain, such as the capacity for analysis and synthesis, are particularly vulnerable. Irrespective of the age of a patient, his/her educational level, occupation, the size of goiter, concrete rather than abstract logic thinking are prevalent in patients with EG. Drug treatment of EG only improves the patients' health status, but fails to eliminate evolving mental disorders even if the sizes of the thyroid can be brought to the normal values, the use of L-thyroxine is more effective that that of iodides.

Previous work suggests that explicit and implicit evaluations (good-bad) involve somewhat different neural circuits that process different dimensions such as valence, emotional intensity, and complexity. To better understand these differences, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to identify brain regions that respond differentially to such dimensions depending on whether or not an explicit evaluation is required. Participants made either good-bad judgments (evaluative) or abstract-concrete judgments (not explicitly evaluative) about socially relevant concepts (e. g., ''murder,'' ''happiness,'' ''abortion,'' ''welfare''). After scanning, participants rated the concepts for goodness, badness, emotional intensity, and how much they tried to control their evaluation of the concept. Amygdala activation correlated with emotional intensity and right insula activation correlated with valence in both tasks, indicating that these aspects of stimuli were processed by these areas regardless of intention. In contrast, for the explicitly evaluative good-bad task only, activity in the anterior cingulate, frontal pole, and lateral areas of the orbital frontal cortex correlated with ratings of control, which in turn were correlated with a measure of ambivalence. These results highlight that evaluations are the consequence of complex circuits that vary depending on task demands.

This paper points out that to persons unfamiliar with the context and suffering of dying patients, their loved ones, and last, but by no means least, the health care team can only discuss the very concrete question of euthanasia in an abstract way unaware of the fact that this question must, in the final analysis, be differently addressed in different specific patients and under specific circumstances. This paper poses questions which must be addressed and will rarely find a good answer but at least the best among a series of unpalatable options. It again points out the important and legitimate place that emotions play in decision-making.

Some robots have been given emotional expressions in an attempt to improve human-computer interaction. In this article we analyze what it would mean for a robot to have emotion, distinguishing emotional expression for communication from emotion as a mechanism for the organization of behavior. Research on the neurobiology of emotion yields a deepening understanding of interacting brain structures and neural mechanisms rooted in neuromodulation that underlie emotions in humans and other animals. However, the chemical basis of animal function differs greatly from the mechanics and computations of current machines. We therefore abstract from biology a functional characterization of emotion that does not depend on physical substrate or evolutionary history, and is broad enough to encompass the possible emotions of robots.

Although aesthetic experiences are frequent in modern life, there is as of yet no scientifically comprehensive theory that explains what psychologically constitutes such experiences. These experiences are particularly interesting because of their hedonic properties and the possibility to provide self-rewarding cognitive operations. We shall explain why modern art's large number of individualized styles, innovativeness and conceptuality offer positive aesthetic experiences. Moreover, the challenge of art is mainly driven by a need for understanding. Cognitive challenges of both abstract art and other conceptual, complex and multidimensional stimuli require an extension of previous approaches to empirical aesthetics. We present an information-processing stage model of aesthetic processing. According to the model, aesthetic experiences involve five stages: perception, explicit classification, implicit classification, cognitive mastering and evaluation. The model differentiates between aesthetic emotion and aesthetic judgments as two types of output.

The current study investigated whether the immediacy and concreteness of fear stimuli play an important role in the effects of trait worry on physiological response to fear. One hundred and eight participants were exposed to one of three fear-provoking stimuli: an actual spider (immediate and concrete), an opaque box which they were told contained a spider (immediate but abstract), or a recorded script (distant and abstract). Participants were yoked by levels of worry and gender. Heart rate, vagal tone, and skin conductance were recorded. The combination of high worry and an actual spider caused the largest decrease in vagal tone, but both the actual spider and opaque box increased skin conductance regardless of worry level. The results suggest that factors, such as the type of fear stimulus and the type of physiological measures used, are vital in understanding the reasons for and the limits of fear activation.

Traditional theories of moral psychology emphasize reasoning and "higher cognition," while more recent work emphasizes the role of emotion. The present fMRI data support a theory of moral judgment according to which both "cognitive" and emotional processes play crucial and sometimes mutually competitive roles. The present results indicate that brain regions associated with abstract reasoning and cognitive control (including dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex) are recruited to resolve difficult personal moral dilemmas in which utilitarian values require "personal" moral violations, violations that have previously been associated with increased activity in emotion-related brain regions. Several regions of frontal and parietal cortex predict intertrial differences in moral judgment behavior, exhibiting greater activity for utilitarian judgments. We speculate that the controversy surrounding utilitarian moral philosophy reflects an underlying tension between competing subsystems in the brain.

In primates, stimuli to sensory systems influence motivational and emotional behavior via neural relays to the orbitofrontal cortex. This article reviews studies on the effects of stimuli from multiple sensory modalities on the brain of humans and some other higher primates. The primate orbitofrontal cortex contains the secondary taste cortex, in which the reward value of taste is represented. It also contains the secondary and tertiary olfactory cortical areas, in which information about the identity and also about the reward value of odors is represented. A somatosensory input is revealed by neurons that respond to the viscosity of food in the mouth, to the texture (mouth feel) of fat in the mouth, and to the temperature of liquids placed into the mouth. The orbitofrontal cortex also receives information about the sight of objects from the temporal lobe cortical visual areas. Information about each of these modalities is represented separately by different neurons, but in addition, other neurons show convergence between different types of sensory input. This convergence occurs by associative learning between the visual or olfactory input and the taste. In that emotions can be defined as states elicited by reinforcers, the neurons that respond to primary reinforcers (such as taste and touch), as well as learn associations to visual and olfactory stimuli that become secondary reinforcers, provide a basis for understanding the functions of the orbitofrontal cortex in emotion. In complementary neuroimaging studies in humans, it is being found that areas of the orbitofrontal cortex are activated by pleasant touch, by painful touch, by taste, by smell, and by more abstract reinforcers such as winning or losing money. Damage to the orbitofrontal cortex in humans can impair the learning and reversal of stimulus-reinforcement associations and thus the correction of behavioral responses when these are no longer appropriate because previous reinforcement contingencies change. It is striking that humans and other catarrhines, being visual specialists like other anthropoids, interface the visual system to other sensory systems (e.g., taste and smell) in the orbitofrontal cortex.

In this exploratory descriptive study, two classification procedures were used to organize and link 479 written plans of 92 adult children caregivers pre-selected for recent experiences of crisis. The subjects provided nearly five hours of care daily to a cognitively impaired parent and composed an average of 5.21 plans for caregiving in the coming two weeks. Subjects reflecting a hands-on, personal approach to caregiver planning reported significantly lower ratings for emotional arousal and perceived risk for loss of health than other subjects. Subjects reflecting an instrumental approach to planning, in addition, composed significantly more abstract plans directed to concerns about personal or relational sense of security. Subjects composing plans reflective of their grief provided significantly fewer hours of parental care and composed fewer plans for parental care than other subjects. This information and how it was obtained can be used to highlight and strengthen decision-making and parental care capacities within the family.

Are the concepts represented by emotion words different from abstract words in memory? We examined the distinct characteristics of emotion concepts in 3 separate experiments. The first demonstrated that emotion words are better recalled than both concrete and abstract words in a free recall task. In the second experiment, ratings of abstract, concrete, and emotion words were compared on concreteness, imageability, and context availability scales. Results revealed a difference between all 3 word types on each of the 3 scales. The third experiment investigated priming in a lexical decision task for homogeneous (abstract-abstract and emotion-emotion) and heterogeneous (abstract-emotion and emotion-abstract) associated word pairs. Priming occurred only for the homogeneous and heterogeneous abstract-emotion word pair conditions. Possible explanations for these findings are discussed in terms of the circumplex, hierarchical, and semantic activation models. The results are most consistent with the predictions of the semantic activation model.

To determine if mental health hospitalizations have increased among youth. A retrospective cross-sectional time trend study. The Washington State Comprehensive Hospital Abstract Reporting System data set was used to examine hospitalizations among youth (aged 5-19 years) from January 1, 1990, through December 31, 1999. The yearly rates of youth hospitalized for mental illness were calculated, as were the proportions of hospitalizations due to mental illness. Chi(2) tests of trend were computed to assess for significant change over time. Additional analyses examined trends in hospital days due to mental illness and repeated hospitalizations and compared mental illness with other major causes of child and adolescent hospitalization. The rate of school-aged children (aged 5-14 years) hospitalized for mental illness increased by 22% during the 1990s (P =.004). The proportion of hospitalizations due to mental illness in school-aged children increased from 7.8% in 1990 to 12.8% in 1999 (P<.001). Among adolescents (aged 15-19 years), no significant change occurred in the rate of mental illness hospitalizations, but the proportion of hospitalizations due to mental illness increased from 14.5% in 1990 to 21.5% in 1999 (P<.001). Although injuries were the leading cause of hospitalizations among youth in 1990, mental illness has since surpassed injuries as a cause for hospitalization. Mental illness accounted for one third of all hospital days for youth in 1999. Mental illness hospitalizations account for an increasing proportion of admissions and hospital days among children and adolescents in Washington State. During the past decade, mental illness has surpassed injury as a leading cause of hospitalization for Washington youth.

Frontal lobe functions include a range of cognitive, emotional, and social abilities that enable goal-directed behavior. Although a number of studies have plotted the development of frontal lobe functions in childhood, few have extended into the adolescent years. There is also little information on which cognitive and emotional components of frontal functioning may be correlated. The aims of this study were to identify and compare age effects on different components of frontal functioning in childhood and adolescence and to examine whether abstract reasoning skills were associated with levels of emotional intelligence and social sensitivity. Twenty children (ages 9-18) were recruited from the local community for a study of normal adolescent brain development. All subjects were free of psychiatric or developmental disorders, as determined by a structured interview. Subjects completed a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery, as well as self-report measures of social sensitivity (anxiety) and emotional intelligence. Significant age effects were found for measures of abstract reasoning, response inhibition, and attentional set shifting. Levels of social anxiety increased moderately with age, although not significantly at this sample size. Abstract reasoning skills correlated positively with levels of social anxiety but not emotional intelligence. The pattern of results suggests differential developmental trajectories across various cognitive and emotional domains of frontal lobe functioning in childhood and adolescence. Increased abstract reasoning ability may be associated with increased vulnerability to social anxiety during this period.

Two novels were selected from two distinct periods in John Steinbeck's career, and text samples from each were pooled according to era. Using quantitative measures of text emotion, between-sample and norm-relative comparisons were computed to evaluate a priori expectations regarding differences in the use of implicit emotional information. These hypotheses reflected abstract characteristics that transcend the focus of a single novel. Analysis of word-based measures did not yield the between-sample differences expected. Rather, the hypotheses were supported by distinct patterns of phoneme distribution. The findings confirm and extend previous work by demonstrating that authors of prose manipulate the emotional quality of phonemes, and that the associated patterns can occur at a more abstract level than previously demonstrated.

The orbitofrontal cortex contains the secondary taste cortex, in which the reward value of taste is represented. It also contains the secondary and tertiary olfactory cortical areas, in which information about the identity and also about the reward value of odours is represented. The orbitofrontal cortex also receives information about the sight of objects from the temporal lobe cortical visual areas, and neurons in it learn and reverse the visual stimulus to which they respond when the association of the visual stimulus with a primary reinforcing stimulus (such as taste) is reversed. This is an example of stimulus-reinforcement association learning, and is a type of stimulus-stimulus association learning. More generally, the stimulus might be a visual or olfactory stimulus, and the primary (unlearned) positive or negative reinforcer a taste or touch. A somatosensory input is revealed by neurons that respond to the texture of food in the mouth, including a population that responds to the mouth feel of fat. In complementary neuroimaging studies in humans, it is being found that areas of the orbitofrontal cortex are activated by pleasant touch, by painful touch, by taste, by smell, and by more abstract reinforcers such as winning or losing money. Damage to the orbitofrontal cortex can impair the learning and reversal of stimulus-reinforcement associations, and thus the correction of behavioural responses when there are no longer appropriate because previous reinforcement contingencies change. The information which reaches the orbitofrontal cortex for these functions includes information about faces, and damage to the orbitofrontal cortex can impair face (and voice) expression identification. This evidence thus shows that the orbitofrontal cortex is involved in decoding and representing some primary reinforcers such as taste and touch; in learning and reversing associations of visual and other stimuli to these primary reinforcers; and in controlling and correcting reward-related and punishment-related behavior, and thus in emotion. The approach described here is aimed at providing a fundamental understanding of how the orbitofrontal cortex actually functions, and thus in how it is involved in motivational behavior such as feeding and drinking, in emotional behavior, and in social behavior.

In recent years, an exciting thrust in the developmental research literature has been the focus on "executive" functions (EF). However, the emphasis has been on the more purely cognitive aspects of EF operative in abstract reasoning and problem solving-aspects associated mainly with dorsolateral frontal regions. Although the literature on adult neuropsychology has seen an emerging and growing interest in the study of processes more related to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), including emotion and personality, research on the development of EF has lagged behind. This special issue of Brain and Cognition is intended to redress this imbalance by bringing together researchers who are studying the nature and development of orbitofrontal function from a wide variety of perspectives.

Affect is a somewhat abstract concept that is frequently linked to physical metaphor. For example, good is often depicted as light (rather than dark), up (rather than down), and moving forward (rather than backward). The purpose of our studies was to examine whether the association between stimulus brightness and affect is optional or obligatory. In a series of three studies, participants categorized words as negative or positive. The valence of the words and the brightness of the letters were varied orthogonally. In Studies 1, 2, and 3, we found that categorization was inhibited when there was a mismatch between stimulus brightness (e.g., light) and word valence (e.g., negative). Studies 4 and 5 reveal boundary conditions for the effect. The studies suggest that, when making evaluations, people automatically assume that bright objects are good, whereas dark objects are bad.

Cognitive interviewing techniques were used to adapt existing measures for use with a population of low-literate Spanish-speaking people with diabetes. Five individuals of Caribbean origin with diabetes participated in cognitive interviews for 4 instruments (measuring diabetes knowledge, quality of life, self-management, and depression) adapted for oral administration to low-literate individuals. Audiotaped interviews and handwritten notes were subjected to content analysis to identify problems across the 4 instruments as well as specific to a given instrument. The following key problems were identified: general instructions were not helpful, items that were not specific enough generated a variety of interpretations, some wording was confusing, abstract concepts were difficult to understand, some terminology was unfamiliar, and interpretation of certain words was incorrect. The data illustrate the usefulness of cognitive interviewing as a first step in the process of adapting measurement instruments.

In the last decade, expanding animal studies on the cerebral organization of reward processing toward human in vivo situations has become possible. In this review, we define some of the concepts associated with reward, summarize the crucial importance of the dopaminergic system, and discuss the currently available neuroimaging studies in man. We will show that abstract concepts of human behavior like emotions, drive, arousal, and reinforcement are now open for further exploration in man at the level of neuronal circuit organization. The cerebral dopaminergic neurotransmitter circuitry does play an important role in the organization of both the motor and motivational system.

Emotions operate along the dimension of approach and aversion, and it is reasonable to assume that orienting behavior is intrinsically linked to emotionally involved processes such as preference decisions. Here we describe a gaze 'cascade effect' that was present when human observers were shown pairs of human faces and instructed to decide which face was more attractive. Their gaze was initially distributed evenly between the two stimuli, but then gradually shifted toward the face that they eventually chose. Gaze bias was significantly weaker in a face shape discrimination task. In a second series of experiments, manipulation of gaze duration, but not exposure duration alone, biased observers' preference decisions. We thus conclude that gaze is actively involved in preference formation. The gaze cascade effect was also present when participants compared abstract, unfamiliar shapes for attractiveness, suggesting that orienting and preference for objects in general are intrinsically linked in a positive feedback loop leading to the conscious choice.

The current study attempts to define the psychological features of patients with delayed sleep-phase syndrome (DSPS). We administered the Yatabe-Guilford test (Y-G test), Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI), Picture-Frustration study (P-F study) and Rorschach test to two groups, one of patients with DSPS (case group) and the other of people without psychiatric symptoms or insomnia (control group). Overall, the results of the tests indicate that patients with DSPS showed emotional features such as nervousness, depression and lack of control of emotional expression. Specific personality traits included introspection, defensiveness, aspiration for intellectual attainment with compulsivity, overly abstract thinking, unawareness of impulsivity to immediate gratification, perseverance and reduced cognitive ability. In addition, the patients with DSPS showed psychopathological features similar to those of neurosis, hypochondriasis, depression, conversion hysteria and psychopathic deviate. There seems to exist a definite psychological profile for patients with DSPS. (1) an excessive defense mechanism that increases nervousness and develops neurosis; (2) a high level of intellectual aspiration with compulsivity that makes the patients feel self-defeated, powerless and disappointed; (3) a tendency to egocentric emotion, inhibition and perseverance. These characteristics may worsen social withdrawal, causing a loss of social cues in synchronizing their circadian rhythm. Thus, the phase shift becomes more difficult and a vicious circle is constituted.

An event-related fMRI technique was used to assess neural responses to financial reward and penalty during a simple gambling task. We attempted to determine whether brain activities are dependent on the unique context of an event sequence. Thirty-six healthy volunteers participated in the study. The task was to guess the color of the suit of a card on each trial and to respond by pressing a button. Every correct response ("win") and incorrect response ("loss") was associated with financial reward and penalty, respectively. The magnitude of reward or penalty in each trial did not change; however, the subjects' self-reported emotional arousal was significantly higher for the events of "the fourth win of four wins in a row" and "the fourth loss of four losses in a row." We also found that the bilateral anterior cingulate and medial prefrontal cortices were specifically activated when the subjects experienced "the fourth win of four wins in a row" and "the fourth loss of four losses in a row." When the subjects experienced "a win following four losses in a row" or "a loss following four wins in a row," the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was specifically activated. Our data indicate that there exist brain activities associated with the event-sequence context in which abstract reward or penalty is received. These context-dependent activities appear to be crucial for adapting oneself to new circumstances and may account for clinical symptoms of various mental illnesses in which dysfunction of these regions has been reported.

The extent to which titles influence aesthetic experiences was examined in 3 experiments. Participants viewed and rated illustrations and photographs on understanding and qualities of the aesthetic experience (e.g., enjoyment, interest). The presence and type of title were manipulated across conditions and experiments. Metaphorical titles led to greater aesthetic experiences than either no title or descriptive titles (the elaboration effect). The elaboration effect occurred regardless of whether participants believed the titles to be true or false. It also occurred for art-experienced participants, but only for representational and not abstract illustrations. Random titles lowered understanding but not aesthetic experiences. Overall, titles increased aesthetic experiences only when they contributed to rich and coherent representations.

Depression is one of the most common neuropsychiatric disturbances in Parkinson's disease. 40% of observed variation in quality of life is due to depression. However, there is little hard evidence of the efficacy and safety of antidepressant therapies in Parkinson's disease. To assess the efficacy and safety of antidepressant therapies in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Safety refers to both the direct side-effects of the therapy and also the therapy's interactions with the symptoms of Parkinson's disease and with the antiparkinsonian medications. Relevant clinical trials were identified by electronic searches the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (the Cochrane Library Issue 3, 2001), MEDLINE(1996-2001), EMBASE (1974-2001), PsychLit (1800's-2001), CINAHL (1982-2001) databases. The reference list of all trial reports and reviews were examined. Queries were sent out to all manufacturers and distributors of antidepressants within the UK requesting information on any relevant clinical trials. Randomised controlled trials (RCT) examining licensed oral antidepressants, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) or behavioural therapy in the treatment of depression in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Data was extracted and assessed independently by three of the authors. Disagreements were resolved by discussion. Three randomised controlled trials were found examining oral antidepressant medications in Parkinson's disease in a total of 106 patients. No eligible trials of ECT or behavioural therapy were found. In the first arm of the crossover trial by Andersen 1980 (n=22) patients in the nortriptyline group showed a larger improvement than placebo group in median depression score in a self-made 31-item depression rating scale after 16 weeks of treatment but statistical significance was not calculated. A parallel group trial by Wermuth 1998 (n=37) did not show any statistically significant difference between the citalopram and placebo groups in the Hamilton Depression Scale after 52 weeks of treatment. The third study by Rabey 1996 (n=47) was a randomised open-label trial to compare fluvoxamine versus amitriptyline. Similar numbers of patients in amitriptyline and fluvoxamine groups (60% vs 55%) had a 50% reduction of Hamilton score after 16 months of treatment. However, further assessment of this trial was not possible because only summary results were available from an abstract and attempts to contact the authors failed. Visual hallucinations or confusion had been reported in patients with fluvoxamine and amitriptyline. Otherwise, no other major side effects were found in the other two trials. Insufficient data on the effectiveness and safety of any antidepressants therapies in Parkinson's disease are available on which to make recommendations for their use. Further large scale randomised controlled trials are urgently required in this area.

Executive cognitive functioning (ECF), a construct that includes cognitive abilities such as planning, abstract reasoning, and the capacity to govern self-directed behavior, has been recently researched as an antecedent to many forms of psychopathology and has been implicated in alcohol-related aggression. This study was designed to examine whether differential ECF impairments can be noted on the ascending versus the descending limbs of the blood alcohol concentration curve. Forty-one male university students participated in this study. Twenty-one subjects were given 1.32 ml of 95% alcohol per kilogram of body weight, mixed with orange juice, and the remaining 20 were given a placebo. Participants were randomly assigned to either an ascending or descending blood alcohol group and were tested on six tests of ECF on their assigned limb. Subjective mood data were also collected. Intoxicated participants on both limbs demonstrated ECF impairment; the descending-limb group showed greater impairment than their ascending-limb counterparts. Intoxicated subjects were significantly more anxious at baseline than placebo subjects. The introduction of this covariate nullified any significant differences in subjective mood found on either limb of the blood alcohol concentration curve, but ECF impairments remained robust. Our results support the conclusion that alcohol negatively affects cognitive performance and has a differential effect on the descending versus the ascending limb of the blood alcohol concentration curve. The latter finding may have important ramifications relating to the detrimental consequences of alcohol intoxication.

Abstract Humanism includes, among its many contexts, the ideal of the universal perfection of health. Procedures for alleviation of disease existed through all epochs of human history, but efficacy was mostly lacking. The prototypic humanism of the Renaissance (ad 1300-1600) scarcely involved the medical -sciences other than human anatomy. The Enlightenment of the seventeenth century included discovery of the circulation of the blood, and applications of microscopy. Discoveries relevant to medical practice began in the nineteenth century, ushered in by vaccination and the germ theory of disease. This 200-year period saw a transformation of human health according to the surrogate marker of increased life--expectancy. This has been variously attributed to: (i) increased prosperity following the industrial revolution, (ii) efforts of humanistic social and public health reformers and, more recently, (iii) advances in medical science. Yet the beneficiaries remain a minority of the world's population. The nexus between poverty, illness and low life-expectancy between and within nations is the major challenge for the future. Contemporary science is providing ever-expanding knowledge on means to achieve the goal of perfection of human health, but the need for humanism is as great as at any previous age. Fortunately, however, the targets are more clearly visible than during the periods of poverty, plagues and pestilence of the past.

Evaluation of different properties of words and the relations among them is of value for understanding languages and as a basis for research. In the present study we investigated relations among interest value, familiarity, and meaningfulness of words. We also investigated the relations of these properties with imagery, concreteness, emotionality, frequency, date of entry into the language, word length, and amplitude of skin conductance response. A total of 85 university students received a list of 25 word pairs, each pair comprised of a concrete and an abstract noun with related meanings, e.g., "friend" and "friendship," and rated the interest value, familiarity, and meaningfulness of each word. Familiarity correlated significantly with meaningfulness and interest value.

The aim of this study was to increase and deepen the understanding of how psychiatric patients in conversations with nurses narrate their experience of suffering. Data were obtained in the years 2001-2002 by audio recording of 20 individual caring conversations between eight patients and three psychiatric nurses at a psychiatric outpatient unit in Sweden. Before the data were gathered the study was approved by a local research ethics committee. The methodology is inspired by the hermeneutics of Paul Ricoeur. The data is given a naïve reading which is followed by two structural analyses which explain the text. Finally, the structural analyses and the pre-understanding are confronted in a critical reflection. In the patients' narratives, suffering was at first concealed under a façade that helps the patient to cope with suffering and with shame. As they moved along to a turning point, something happened that made them able to risk everything, i.e. their very selves, but also gave them the possibility of regaining vital parts of themselves that where lost when the façade was constructed. As they took the suffering upon themselves, they grew to be fully visible as human beings and healing was possible as a re-establishment of the interpersonal bridge. This not only meant that the sufferer became open for relationships with others or an abstract other, but also that an opening in the relationship with themselves occurred. If psychiatric patients are allowed to narrate freely they develop different plot structures, which can either hide or reveal suffering. Patients who could establish an answer to the why-question of suffering could also interpret their suffering in a way that enabled growth and reconciliation. In order to do so, they had to abandon the shelter of the façade and confront suffering and shame. This turning point opened them up to life-sustaining relationships with themselves as well as with abstract and concrete others.

The objective of this study was to develop new standardized alcohol-associated cues and assess their effects on brain activation with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Pictures of alcoholic and neutral beverages and affectively neutral pictures were presented to 44 abstinent alcoholics and 37 age-matched healthy control subjects. We assessed the skin conductance response, and the elicited arousal and valence. Alcoholics and control subjects did not differ in arousal, valence or skin conductance response evoked by alcohol-associated and affectively neutral stimuli, while nonalcoholic beverages were rated as more unpleasant and arousing by alcoholics compared with control subjects. In the fMRI pilot study, alcohol and abstract pictures were presented to six abstinent alcoholics and induced a significant activation of brain areas associated with visual emotional processes such as the fusiform gyrus, parts of the brain reward system (basal ganglia and orbitofrontal gyrus) and further brain regions in the frontal and parietal cortices associated with the attention network. These observations suggest that standardized pictures of alcoholic beverages can be used to assess brain circuits involved in the processing and evaluation of alcohol cues.

The experiences of people with schizophrenia exist on a continuum with normal functioning. Thinking about schizophrenia and psychosis in this way is a far greater antidote to stigma than regarding people with schizophrenia as having a collection of abstract symptoms and as categorically different from the rest of humanity because of their diagnosis. This article explains the reasons behind many of the symptoms experienced by people with schizophrenia. The author gives a first-hand account of how the condition has affected his life.

As yet, nearly all studies in face and facial affect recognition typically provide only data on the accuracy of processing, invariably also in the absence of reference data on abstract information processing. In this study, accuracy and speed of abstract visuo-spatial processing, face recognition, and facial emotion recognition were investigated in normal school children (7-10 years) and adults (25+/-4 years). In the age range of 7-10 years, accuracy of facial processing hardly increased, while speed did substantially increase with age. Adults, however, were substantially more accurate and faster than children. Differences between facial and abstract information processing were related to type of processing strategy, that is, configural or holistic processing versus featural or piecemeal processing. Improvement in task performance with age is discussed in terms of an enhanced efficiency of the configural organization of facial knowledge (facial information processing tasks), together with a further increase in processing capacity (all tasks). The differential developmental course of speed and accuracy levels indicates that speed is a more sensitive measure when children get older. Moreover, it also suggests that speed of performance, in addition to accuracy, might be successfully used in the assessment of clinical deficits, as has recently been demonstrated in children with autistic disorders of social contact.

Recently psychologists have questioned the traditional model of grief, arguing that the continuation of bonds with the deceased spouse is generally adaptive. Continuing bonds can be seen as attempts to cope with the loss of a spouse but also with the shattering of the normal illusory basic assumptions about the self, the world, and the future. At this time, however, scholarship has provided few concepts to understand how continuing bonds and illusions express adaptive or maladaptive forms of grief. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to identify, in the context of the illusory basic assumptions, the circumstances by which the bond with the deceased is adaptive or maladaptive. So Epstein (1980) distinguished between higher order postulates and lower order postulates. Higher order postulates are an abstract form of schemas, or generalized theories about the self, the world, and the future, that are resistant to changes. On the other hand, lower order postulates are a concrete form of schemas normally flexible and responsive to the changes in the reality of the new situation. On the basis of this distinction, the author argues that higher order bonds or symbolic bonds are adaptive, whereas lower order bonds or concrete bonds are maladaptive.

Previous research has found that reminding participants of their mortality creates a need for individuals to maintain and defend subjective cultural worldviews. As a result, mortality salient participants typically strive to uphold legal sanctions and also react negatively to individuals who espouse alternative worldview beliefs, exhibiting behaviors toward those targets ranging from verbal derogation to physical aggression. This paper extends this line of research by examining perceptions of hate crimes. Hate crimes represent a unique class of crime where both the perpetrator and victim may be viewed as worldview violators. Study 1 revealed that mortality salient participants were more supportive of hate crime legislation than were control participants when hate crimes were described in abstract terms and no specific victim was mentioned. In Study 2, a specific victim who posed a potential worldview threat was identified. In this case, mortality salient participants were less punitive toward offenders who attacked these specific worldview-threatening victims.

Clinical guidelines, defined as 'systematically developed statements to assist both practitioner and patient decisions in specific circumstances', have become an increasingly familiar part of clinical care. Guidelines are viewed as useful tools for making care more consistent and efficient and for closing the gap between what clinicians do and what scientific evidence supports. Interest in clinical guidelines is international and has its origin in issues faced by most healthcare systems: rising healthcare costs; variations in service delivery with the presumption that at least some of this variation stems from inappropriate care; the intrinsic desire of healthcare professionals to offer, and patients to receive, the best care possible. Within the UK, there is ongoing interest in the development of guidelines and a fast-developing clinical-effectiveness agenda within which guidelines figure prominently. Over the last decade, the methods of developing guidelines have steadily improved, moving from solely consensus methods to methods that take explicit account of relevant evidence. However, UK guidelines have tended to focus on issues of effectiveness and have not explicitly considered broader issues, particularly cost. This report describes the methods developed to handle benefit, harm and cost concepts in clinical guidelines. It reports a series of case studies, each describing the development of a clinical guideline; each case study illustrates different issues in incorporating these different types of evidence. There has been no widely accepted successful way of incorporating economic considerations into guidelines. Unlike other areas of guideline development, there is little practical or theoretical experience to direct the incorporation of cost issues within clinical guidelines. However, the reasons for considering costs are clearly stated: "health interventions are not free, people are not infinitely rich, and the budgets of [health care] programmes are limited. For every dollar's worth of health care that is consumed, a dollar will be paid. While these payments can be laundered, disguised or hidden, they will not go away" (Eddy DM. A manual for assessing health practices and designing practice policies: the explicit approach. Philadelphia: American College of Physicians; 1992). Such opportunity costs are a universal phenomenon. In the USA it has been recommended that every set of clinical guidelines should include information on the cost implications of the alternative preventive, diagnostic, and management strategies for each clinical situation. The stated rationale was that this information would help potential users to evaluate better the potential consequences of different practices. However, it was acknowledged that "the reality is that this recommendation poses major methodological and practical challenges" (Institute of Medicine. Guidelines for clinical practice: from development to use. Washington: National Academy Press; 1992). A guideline development process summarises the technical information about the value of treatments in a manner that makes them accessible and ready for use in clinical practice, alongside information on contextual issues. The requirement is that the presentation of costs and benefits of treatments is methodologically sound, robust and accessible. This report includes a summary of the current best practice in evidence-based guideline development, including recent methodological advances. The manner in which cost and cost-effectiveness concepts have been successfully incorporated into the guideline process is introduced. The 'cost-effectiveness' sections of 11 guidelines are reported to illustrate both the range of methods used and the nature of the recommendations reached by the guideline development groups when considering the profile of consequences of treatments including costs. These guidelines are broadly grouped as: (1) those using qualitative evidence summary methods; (2) those using quantitative evidence summary methods and addressing relatively narrow clinical questions; (3) those using quantitative evidence summary methods and addressing a broad clinical area; (4) a guideline based upon a decision analysis model. The focus of this project was to explore the methods of incorporating cost issues within clinical guidelines. However, the process of reviewing evidence in guideline development groups is becoming increasingly sophisticated, not only in considerations of cost but also in review techniques and group process. At the outset of the project it was unclear how narrowly or broadly the concept of 'cost' could be considered. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

Abstract In this study we examine determinants of intended condom use with casual and steady sex partners among drug users. Our aim was to find out whether anticipated regret and psychopathology represent additional factors in explaining condom use behaviour, on top of the constructs defined in traditional psychosocial models of behaviour. A questionnaire measuring intentions, attitude, beliefs, personal norm, subjective norm, descriptive norm, self-efficacy and anticipated regret toward condom use with steady and casual sex partners, and the Symptom Checklist '90 (to measure dimensions of psychopathology) were handed out to 150 Dutch drug users. The results showed that intended condom use with steady sex partners was mainly predicted by self-efficacy, personal norm and anticipated regret (total R2 = 0.41). Lower feelings of hostility and a more positive personal norm, subjective norm and attitude significantly predicted intended condom use with casual sex partners (total R2 = 0.24). The results also showed that intended condom use with steady sex partners seems to result from anticipating possible barriers, whereas condom use with casual sex partners is largely a matter of having safe sex norms. Practical implications of this study for Aids-preventive campaigns are also discussed.

The presented paper discusses the orientation processes and simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability in patients with dementia and depression. The disturbances of the orientation processes and the simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability have proved characteristic of patients with dementia. The disorder of simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability constituted one of the cognitive limits in patients with dementia. Patients with dementia aided themselves with long-term memory and the retrieval processes ability in the orientation processes. In patients with dementia simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability, orientation processes, attention, short-term memory, retrieval processes decreased together with progression of the dementia processes. The simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability in patients with depression was maintained at a high level. Memory and visuospatial learning and simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability reflected aptly the level of the orientation processes in patients with depression. Only patients with depression helped themselves with the simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability in the orientation processes. In ageing simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability decreased together with age. Notional abstract thinking was related to the orientation processes and the simultaneous visuospatial synthesis ability only in those ageing.

We examined the neural substrates involved when subjects encountered an event linked verbally, but not experientially, to an aversive outcome. This instructed fear task models a primary way humans learn about the emotional nature of events. Subjects were told that one stimulus (threat) represents an aversive event (a shock may be given), whereas another (safe) represents safety (no shock will be given). Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), activation of the left amygdala was observed in response to threat versus safe conditions, which correlated with the expression of the fear response as measured by skin conductance. Additional activation observed in the insular cortex is proposed to be involved in conveying a cortical representation of fear to the amygdala. These results suggest that the neural substrates that support conditioned fear across species have a similar but somewhat different role in more abstract representations of fear in humans.

The contingency-competence-control (CCC) model links contingency and competence beliefs to perceived control and, in turn, to depression. However, a developmental perspective suggests that noncontingency may be too abstract a concept to be directly tied to depression before adolescence. We tested the CCC model and this developmental notion, using structural equation modeling, with 360 clinic-referred 8- to 17-year-olds. The CCC model fit the data well for the full sample accounting for 46% of the variance in depression. Separate analyses by age group placed perceived contingency in the best-fit model for adolescents (ages 12-17 years) but not for children (8-11 years). This suggests that abstract cause-effect concepts may have more direct affective impact after the cognitive changes of adolescence (e.g., formal operations) than before. Finally, the CCC model accounted for much more variance in depression than conduct problems, suggesting diagnostic specificity.

1. To distinguish GAD from panic disorder is not difficult if a patient has frequent, spontaneous panic attacks and agoraphobic symptoms, but many patients with GAD have occasional anxiety attacks or panic attacks. Such patients should be considered as having GAD. An even closer overlap probably exists between GAD and social phobia. Patients with clear-cut phobic avoidant behavior may be distinguished easily from patients with GAD, but patients with social anxiety without clear-cut phobic avoidant behavior may overlap with patients with GAD and possibly should be diagnosed as having GAD and not social phobia. The cardinal symptoms of GAD commonly overlap with those of social phobia, particularly if the social phobia is more general and not focused on a phobic situation. For example, free-floating anxiety may cause the hands to perspire and may cause a person to be shy in dealing with people in public, and thus many patients with subthreshold social phobic symptoms have, in the authors' opinion, GAD and not generalized social phobia. The distinction between GAD and obsessive-compulsive disorder, acute stress disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder should not be difficult by definition. At times, however, it may be difficult to distinguish between adjustment disorder with anxious mood from GAD or anxiety not otherwise specified, particularly if the adjustment disorder occurs in a patient with a high level of neuroticism or trait anxiety or type C personality disorder. Table 2 presents features distinguishing GAD from other psychiatric disorders. 2. Lifetime comorbid diagnoses of other anxiety or depression disorders, not active for 1 year or more and not necessitating treatment during that time period, should not effect a diagnosis of current GAD. On the other hand, if concomitant depressive symptoms are present and if these are subthreshold, a diagnosis of GAD should be made, and if these are full threshold, a diagnosis of MDD should be made. 3. If GAD is primary and if no such current comorbid diagnosis, such as other anxiety disorders or MDD, is present, except for minor depression and dysthymia, or if only subthreshold symptoms of other anxiety disorders are present, GAD should be considered primary and treated as GAD; however, patients with concurrent threshold anxiety or mood disorders should be diagnosed according to the definitions of these disorders in the DSM-IV and ICD-10 and treated as such. 4. Somatization disorders are now classified separately from anxiety disorders. Some of these, particularly undifferentiated somatization disorder, may overlap with GAD and be diagnostically difficult to distinguish. The authors believe that, as long as psychic symptoms of anxiety are present and predominant, patients should be given a primary diagnosis of GAD. 5. Two major shifts in the DSM diagnostic criteria for GAD have markedly redefined the definition of this disorder. One shift involves the duration criterion from 1 to 6 months, and the other, the increased emphasis on worry and secondary psychic [table: see text] symptoms accompanied by the elimination of most somatic symptoms. This decision has had the consequence of orphaning a large population of patients suffering from GAD that is more transient and somatic in its focus and who typically present not to psychiatrists but to primary care physicians. Therefore, clinicians should consider using the ICD-10 qualification of illness duration of "several months" to replace the more rigid DSM-IV criterion of 6 months and to move away from the DSM-IV focus on excessive worry as the cardinal symptom of anxiety and demote it to only another important anxiety symptom, similar to free-floating anxiety. One also might consider supplementing this ICD-10 criterion with an increased symptom severity criterion as, for example, a Hamilton Anxiety Scale of 18. Finally, the adjective excessive, not used in the definition of other primary diagnostic criteria, such as depressed mood for MDD, should be omitted (Table 3). 6. One may want to consider the distinction of trait (chronic) from state (acute) anxiety, but whether the presence of some personality characteristics, particularly anxious personality or Cluster C personality and increased neuroticism, as an indicator of trait [table: see text] anxiety is a prerequisite for anxiety disorders; occurs independently of anxiety disorders; or is a vulnerability factor that, in some patients, leads to anxiety symptoms and, in others, does not, is unknown. 7. Symptoms that some clinicians consider cardinal for a diagnosis of GAD, such as extreme worry, obsessive rumination, and somatization, also are present in other disorders, such as MDD. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

Consensus has not been achieved on the presence of unconscious memory of messages in general anesthesia for methodological reasons. Our objective was to apply a model of anesthesia that allows for clinical control of the level of hypnosis in order to evaluate the presence and characteristics of implicit memory in deep sedation with propofol. We randomly assigned 48 consecutive patients undergoing lower limb surgery to two groups. In both groups subarachnoid anesthesia was with varying doses of propofol to maintain a level of hypnosis marked by inability to respond to orders, absence of movements and spontaneous ventilation. The experimental group listened to a recording of the words "banana" and "melon" for the semantic category of fruits and "white" and "black" for colors. The control group listened to a recording of environmental operating room noise. We recorded, among other variables, anxiety and age. Upon awakening, after the presence of conscious memory had been ruled out, we investigated implicit memory by comparing the percentage of correct answers in the two groups. The experimental group had a higher percentage of correct fruit names (p = 0.03). No differences were detected for colors. The youngest patients in the experimental group were correct more often about the fruits than were older members (p = 0.04) and those with greater anxiety were more often correct (p = 0.002). Implicit memory is preserved under hypnosis with propofol and is more likely to be present among those who are younger or experience greater anxiety. Concrete words with object references are more easily remembered than abstract words referring to perception. The semantic load of messages is relevant.

The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is implicated in emotion and emotion-related learning. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we measured brain activation in human subjects doing an emotion-related visual reversal-learning task in which choice of the correct stimulus led to a probabilistically determined 'monetary' reward and choice of the incorrect stimulus led to a monetary loss. Distinct areas of the OFC were activated by monetary rewards and punishments. Moreover, in these areas, we found a correlation between the magnitude of the brain activation and the magnitude of the rewards and punishments received. These findings indicate that one emotional involvement of the human orbitofrontal cortex is its representation of the magnitudes of abstract rewards and punishments, such as receiving or losing money.

Following a subject-centred perspective in the research of happiness we asked N = 26 subjects aged 65 to 74 years in semistructured interviews about their subjective theories on happiness and quality of life (QOL) (subjective contents of the terms; description of a happy person; open wishes; causal attributions; control beliefs). Content analyses resulted in 28 categories that are united into 5 domains (personal resources, social resources and interaction, activity, material and environmental resources, abstract definitions). Particular aspects in content that have not yet been reported in the literature can be interpreted as notions of happiness and QOL specific to the elderly. Differences between the subjective concepts of "happiness" versus "QOL" are described. Ratings of semantic distance between the concepts "happiness", "QOL", "satisfaction", and "health" are analysed by multidimensional scaling. According to that, subjective representations of "happiness" and "QOL" vary markedly.

The present investigation examined the psychometric properties of the Wisconsin HSS Quality of Life Inventory (WI HSS QOL) when used in the study of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The WI HSS QOL is a theoretically based measure that assesses QOL via level of need satisfaction as conceptualized in Maslow's theory of human needs. Both internal consistency and test-retest reliability were demonstrated in a group of individuals with moderate to severe TBI. The demonstrated consistency of the participants' self-reports indicates that QOL can be reliably assessed from the survivor's perspective. Cluster analytic results generally supported the construct validity of the measure's use in TBI. The cluster solution reflected four of the five theoretical need categories; however, the fifth category, "self-actualization" needs, did not emerge as a single cluster as expected. This deviation from the theoretical model may relate to participants' difficulties in understanding the relatively abstract items designed to assess the concept of self-actualization. Overall, the WI HSS QOL holds significant promise as a measure of QOL in TBI.

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) prescriptions for children and adolescents have increased greatly in recent years despite a paucity of demonstrated safety and efficacy data and a lack of clear guidelines for use. Our study sought to describe family physician and pediatrician SSRI prescribing patterns for children and adolescents, identify influences on SSRI prescription variations, and describe the use of SSRI within the overall management of depression and other mental disorders in primary care. A survey was mailed to all 596 active North Carolina general pediatricians and a random sample of 557 family physicians in primary care practice. Family physicians who did not see children in their practice were excluded. The survey instrument consisted of a 4-page questionnaire. Survey items included physician demographics, practice characteristics, general management, volume of pediatric patients with depressive symptoms, prescription of SSRIs for depression and other diagnoses, and potential influences on SSRI prescribing practices. The main outcomes were self-reported physician prescription of SSRIs for children and adolescents. Results were analyzed using chi(2) comparisons and logistic regression. The overall response rate was 66% (55% family physicians and 76% pediatricians). Of the physicians, 72% had prescribed an SSRI for a child or adolescent. Depression was the most common reason for prescribing an SSRI; over two thirds of respondents had prescribed an SSRI for depression in a child 18 years of age or younger. Over half of the physicians reported they had prescribed an SSRI for a diagnosis other than depression in a child 18 years of age or younger. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder was the most frequent use cited other than depression, followed by obsessive-compulsive disorder, aggression, eating disorders, and enuresis. Primary care physicians prescribed SSRIs for adolescents more commonly than for younger children. Only 6% of the respondents had ever prescribed an SSRI for a child younger than 6 years of age. In terms of SSRI prescriptions written for depression in the last 6 months, 32% of the physicians had recently prescribed SSRIs for adolescent patients and 6% for patients younger than 12 years of age. Family physicians were more likely than pediatricians to have recently prescribed SSRIs for adolescent patients (41% vs 26%), but there was no difference in recent SSRI prescriptions for children <12 years of age by physician specialty (4% vs 6%). Prescription of SSRIs was not associated with decreased use of counseling for treatment of depression, but prescription of SSRIs was associated with decreased use of referrals (63% vs 74%). There was no difference in the use of counseling between family physicians and pediatricians (61% vs 59%). However, pediatricians were more likely to use referrals in their usual approach to depression (77% vs 48%) compared with family physicians. More family physicians had prescribed SSRIs for pediatric patients compared with pediatricians (91% vs 58%), and more family physicians had prescribed SSRIs in combination with other psychotropic medications (54% vs 31%). For the majority of respondents, SSRI prescriptions constituted most of the medications used to treat childhood depression (75% of family physicians vs 61% of pediatricians). Family physicians were more likely to report a belief in the safety (63% vs 48%) and effectiveness (40% vs 32%) of SSRIs. Only 8% of physicians reported adequate training in the treatment of childhood depression and just 16% were comfortable with the treatment of depression. There were no specialty differences in training for the treatment of childhood depression; however, more family physicians than pediatricians agreed that they were comfortable with the management of childhood depression (22% vs 11%). (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

This paper reviews over a century's research into the developmental patterns of normal fear. Normal fear has been defined as a normal reaction to a real or imagined threat and is considered to be an integral and adaptive aspect of development with the primary function of promoting survival. Across a wide range of methodologies and assessment instruments researchers have been particularly focussed on investigating whether fear content, prevalence and intensity differ depending upon age, gender, socio-economic status, and culture. The structure and continuity of normal fears have also received much attention. The most consistently documented findings include that fear decreases in prevalence and intensity with age and that specific fears are transitory in nature. There are also predictable changes in the content of normal fear over the course of development. Such changes are characterized by a transition from infant fears which are related to immediate, concrete and prepotent stimuli, and which are largely non-cognitive, to fears of late childhood and adolescence which are related to anticipatory, abstract, and more global stimuli and events. Recent research into normal fear has more closely examined the validity of the more frequently used current assessment technique (i.e., the fear survey schedule). This research has provided some encouraging results as well as directions for future investigation.

To determine whether antidepressants are clinically effective and acceptable for the treatment of depression in people who also have a physical illness. Medline, Cochrane Library Trials Register and Cochrane Depression and Neurosis Group Trials Register were all systematically searched, supplemented by hand searches of two journals and reference searching. All relevant randomised trials comparing any antidepressant drug (as defined in the British National Formulary) with placebo or no treatment, in patients of either sex over 16, who have been diagnosed as depressed by any criterion, and have a specified physical disorder (for example cancer, myocardial infarction). "Functional" disorders where there is no generally agreed physical pathology (e.g. irritable bowel syndrome) were excluded. The main outcome measures are numbers of individuals who recover/improve at the end of the trial and, as a proxy for treatment acceptability, numbers who complete treatment. Data was extracted independently by the reviewers onto data collection forms and differences settled by discussion. 18 studies were included, covering 838 patients with a range of physical diseases (cancer 2, diabetes 1, head injury 1, heart 1, HIV 5, lung 1, multiple sclerosis 1, renal 1, stroke 3, mixed 2). Depression was diagnosed clinically in 3 studies, otherwise by structured interview or checklist. Only 5 studies described how they performed randomisation. 1 study compared drug with no treatment, and the rest with placebo: all of the latter said they were double blind. 6 studies used SSRIs, 3 atypical antidepressants, and the remainder tricyclics. Patients treated with antidepressants were significantly more likely to improve than those given placebo (13 studies, OR 0.37, 95% CI 0.27-0.51) or no treatment (1 study, OR 3.45, 95% CI 11.1-1.10). About 4 patients would need to be treated with antidepressants to produce one recovery from depression which would not have occurred had they been given placebo (NNT 4.2, 95% CI 3.2-6.4). Most antidepressants (tricyclics and SSRIs together, 15 trials ) produced a small but significant increase in dropout (OR 1.66, 95% CI 1.14-2.40. NNH 9.8, 95% CI 5.4-42.9). The "atypical" antidepressant mianserinproduced significantly less dropout than placebo. Only 2 studies used numerical scales designed to measure effects on function and quality of life; in HIV (Karnofsky scale), drug was better than no treatment; in lung disease (Sickness Impact Profile), drug was not significantly different from placebo. Only 7 studies reported looking for changes in the physical disease. Antidepressants produced no change in immune function in HIV relative to placebo (2 studies) or no treatment (1 study). Relative to placebo, antidepressants produced no change in cardiovascular function in heart disease, in respiratory function in lung disease, or in vital signs or laboratory tests in cancer (1 study each). Nortriptyline produced worse control in diabetes. Trends towards tricyclics being more effective than SSRIs, but also more likely to produce dropout were noted, but these are based on non-randomised comparisons between trials. The review provides evidence that antidepressants, significantly more frequently than either placebo or no treatment, cause improvement in depression in patients with a wide range of physical diseases. About 4 patients would need to be treated with antidepressants to produce one recovery from depression which would not have occurred had they been given placebo (NNT 4.2, 95% CI 3.2-6.4). Antidepressants seem reasonably acceptable to patients, in that about 10 patients would need to be treated with antidepressants to produce one dropout from treatment which would not have occurred had they been given placebo (NNH 9.8, 95% CI 5.4-42.9). (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

About twenty years ago the traditional question whether humans are allowed to kill animals was replaced by two new questions: the question of killing and the question of suffering. The question of killing ist the abstract question if--in isolation from the question of suffering--finishing an animal's life is moral. So the question of killing can be raised for every single case of an animal killed by man. The moral evaluation of a killing without suffering (of all directly and indirectly involved beings) concerns just the question of killing; for example, an experiment in which the animal is made unconscious by an anesthetic prior to the experiment being performed and is then killed before it regains consciousness.--The comparative analysis of the popular arguments demonstrates fallacies in some of them and shows a new view of the problem. Because not the killing itself (without fear or pain) but the innate fear of death is the real motive to reject ones own killing, it is necessary to demand that every killing of an animal by man is done without any fear (or pain) for the animal. To claim an animal's right to life however is not yet justified.

We investigated the association of subject-rated imagery, subject-rated concreteness, subject-rated emotionality, frequency, date of entry into the language, and word length with emotional imagery as measured by the skin conductance response elicited by that word. 50 words in a list of 25 word-pairs were rated by 96 university students; then their skin conductance response of each word was measured for each word. In each pair, one word was concrete and one was abstract but with related meaning, e.g., adolescent and adolescence. Stepwise multiple regression indicated that 30% of variance in the later skin conductance response was explained by imagery and subject-rated emotionality. Imagery alone explained 24% of variance.

Normative values on various word characteristics were obtained for abstract, concrete, and emotion words in order to facilitate research on concreteness effects and on the similarities and differences among the three word types. A sample of 78 participants rated abstract, concrete, and emotion words on concreteness, context availability, and imagery scales. Word associations were also gathered for abstract, concrete, and emotion words. The data were used to investigate similarities and differences among these three word types on word attributes, association strengths, and number of associations. These normative data can be used to further research on concreteness effects, word type effects, and word recognition for abstract, concrete, and emotion words.

Patients are frequently referred to the haematologist to be studied due to the presence of processes that are not properly haematological. We have studied the group of outpatients with non-oncohaematological pathologies referred to our external haematology clinic to evaluate their knowledge about the reason for consultation, the existence or not of worry upation and its degree at the arrival. We have made a prospective study including all patients with non-oncohaematological processes (n = 204) who were referred for the first time to our external consultation between April and October 1997. We evaluated in each patient, using an inquest, the following data: age, sex, origin (hospital consultations or urban or rural health centres), reason for consultation, knowledge of the reason for consultation (yes/partially/no), existence or not of worry (yes/no) and when present, its degree (low, moderate, high). The inquiry was made to the parents in those patients aged under 12 years. We have analyzed all adults, each group of adult patients (rural, urban, hospital) separately and compared one group to each other, all pediatric patients and we have compared as well the overall results obtained with adult patients with those from the parents of pediatric patients. 1) Adult patients (n = 169; 78 referred from hospital, 59 from urban and 32 from rural health centres): with respect to the knowledge of the reason for consultation 49.7% of them knew it perfectly, 20.1% partially, and 30.2% did not know about it. 48.5% of patients arrived worried to the clinic, 16.6% of them with a high degree, 17.8% moderate and 14.2% low. 2) Adults referred from primary health care (urban versus rural health centres): We have found neither significant differences in the knowledge of the reason for consultation, worry or its degree with respect to age, sex or origin (urban or rural), nor in the worry or its degree with respect to the patient knowledge of the reason for consultation. 3) Adults referred from other hospital units: The mean age of patients who knew the reason for consultation was significatively lower than that observed in the group who did not (respectively 43.3 and 57 years) (p = 0.003). These differences did not exist with respect to sex. Differences in the existence or not of worry with respect to sex were almost significant, women arrive more worried than men (57.1% and 31.8% respectively, p = 0.07). No significant differences were found in the existence or not of worry and its degree with respect to age or knowledge of the reason for consultation. 4) Comparison between both groups of adults patients (hospital consultation and health centres): No significant differences in the knowledge of the reason for consultation, existence or not of worry and its degree have been found with respect to the other parameters studied. 5) Paediatric patients (n = 35; 8 referred from hospital, 14 from urban and 13 rural health centres): With respect to the knowledge of the reason for consultation 62.9% of them knew it perfectly, 17.1% partially and 20% did not know about it. 80% of patients' parents arrived worried at consultation, 45.7% with a high degree, 20% moderate and 14.3% low. 6) Comparison between paediatrics and adult patients: we have only found significative differences in the existence or not of worry (80% and 48.5% respectively, p = 0.001) and its degree (65.7% of parents with moderate or high worry and 34.4% of adults, p = 0.0004). Parents of paediatric patients arrive at our consultation more worried and with a higher worry degree than the other adults. We consider that patients referred to our external consultation of haematology for the first time arrive with a poor knowledge of their reason for consultation. This observation does not seem to have any relation with age, sex or origin (hospital consultations, urban or rural health centres). (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

The extent to which anxious people benefit from exposure-based treatments seems to depend on the degree to which they activate their fear network during exposure. This study was designed to investigate whether the cognitive processing of threat in anxious individuals is dominated by abstract anticipatory memory, and whether this abstract memory mode is related to the incomplete activation of the fear network. Activation of the fear network was assessed during phobic exposure, as evidenced by the initial autonomic reaction. Spider phobics and controls were presented with a threatening imagery script. Half of them were exposed to a real-life spider. Spider phobics memorized relatively more abstract anticipatory descriptions than concrete sensory descriptions when compared with the control subjects. Only in phobic subjects. higher recognition of abstract anticipatory descriptions was inversely related to heart rate reactivity during exposure. A preferential memory mode for abstract information was related to an attenuated heart rate reactivity to threat in spider phobics. It is suggested that the preferential memory mode for abstract information may inhibit the activation of the subcortical affective memory system, which is crucial for the complete activation of the fear network. The absence of complete fear network activation may play a role in the persistence of anxiety disorders by hindering anxious individuals to learn that the stimuli they fear are not as dangerous as they assumed.

Article abstract-Interferon beta (IFNbeta) reduces the relapse rate, disease activity as measured by serial MRI scanning, and disease progression of MS. Therapy with IFNbeta may be associated with a number of adverse reactions. Relatively frequent side effects include flu-like symptoms, transient laboratory abnormalities, menstrual disorders, and increased spasticity. Dermal injection site reactions occur after subcutaneous application of IFNbeta-1b and IFNbeta-1a. Possible side effects of IFNbeta include various autoimmune reactions, capillary leak syndrome, anaphylactic shock, thrombotic-thrombocytopenic purpura, insomnia, headache, alopecia, and depression. We discuss the mechanisms and management of the different side effects of IFNbeta.

We tested the hypothesis that psychopathy is associated with abnormal processing of semantic and affective verbal information. In Task 1, a lexical decision task, and in Task 2, a word identification task, participants responded faster to concrete than to abstract words. In Task 2, psychopaths made more errors identifying abstract words than concrete words. In Task 3, a word identification task, participants responded faster to positive than to negative words. In all three tasks, nonpsychopaths showed the expected event-related potential (ERP) differentiation between word stimuli, whereas psychopaths did not. In each task, the ERPs of the psychopaths included a large centrofrontal negative-going wave (N350); this wave was absent or very small in the nonpsychopaths. The interpretation and significance of these differences are discussed.

We investigated the association of the imagery and concreteness of words on their emotionality. Emotionality was evaluated on the basis of skin conductance. A total of 61 subjects (all university students) rated the vividness of imagery and concreteness of the words in a list of 25 word pairs. Each pair was comprised of one abstract word and one concrete word with a related meaning, e.g., "friendship" and "friend," thereby controlling meaning. The skin-conductance response of each word was measured subsequently from these same subjects. Our results show that both imagery and concreteness were significantly related to emotionality.

The following study examined the association between neurocognitive performance and emotional status in chronic pain patients. Seventy-three chronic pain patients recruited consecutively from services in a general medical hospital completed a battery of 10 neurocognitive measures and the Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R; a gross measure of emotional distress). Cluster analytic procedures were used to identify a three-cluster group solution based on the SCL-90-R. Results indicate that subjects highest in emotional distress experienced more neurocognitive difficulties in intellectual functioning, immediate and delayed recall of verbal and nonverbal material, abstract thinking and problem solving, and cognitive efficiency than subjects lowest in emotional distress. The differences in neurocognitive functioning among the three cluster groups were not confounded by any differences on a number of background variables. These results suggest that level of emotional distress is associated with difficulties in a range of neurocognitive domains and have implications for the assessment and management of chronic pain patients.

Five studies were conducted to investigate the relationship between how people communicate about social events and how representations of these events are stored in memory. It was hypothesized that more distant events in memory would be described with more abstract linguistic predicates, and recent events with more concrete language. The 1st study supported this hypothesis. The 2nd and 3rd experiments demonstrated that abstract predicates used as prompts elicit memories that are significantly more removed in time than concrete predicates. Two final experiments showed that these outcomes are not merely a function of the type of semantic cue but an interaction between memory and preferential predicate use. The findings illustrate a link between memory and communicative behavior of a type that has not been previously studied. The results are discussed in terms of a recent, well-supported model of 2 separate fast-learning and slow-learning memory systems.

For the present purpose, love is defined as one's having stimulation that one desires. The nature of the stimulation can range on a continuum from the most abstract cognitive, to the most direct sensory, forms. Thus, this definition of love encompasses having an emotional bond with a person for whom one yearns, as well as having sensory stimulation that one desires. We address some of the physiological and perceptual consequences both of having, and of not having, love. We propose a neural mechanism by which deprivation of love may generate endogenous, compensatory sensory stimulation that manifests itself as psychosomatic illness. In addition, we propose a neuroendocrine mechanism underlying sexual response and orgasm. The latter includes vaginocervical sensory pathways to the brain that can produce analgesia, release oxytocin, and/or bypass the spinal cord via the vagus nerve. We present evidence of the existence of non-genital orgasms, which suggests that genital orgasm is a special case of a more pervasive orgasmic process. Through recent studies, the mechanisms and manifestations of love and its deprivation are becoming better understood. The better is our understanding of love, the greater is our respect for the significance and potency of its role in mental and physical health.

Ten children (6 girls and 4 boys) who completed a protocol in which their localized brain tumors were successfully treated without cranial irradiation were referred for neuropsychological assessment. At the time of testing, they were disease free without any neuroaxis dissemination or leptomeningeal disease. Tumor types included pineoblastoma, glioblastoma, ependymoma, PNET and medulloblastoma. They had a mean age of 5 years and 8 months (SD = 1.86; range = 2.1-8.9 years) and were an average of 37.8 months post bone marrow transplant (SD = 16.42; range = 14-58 months). Neuropsychological data from this study reveal that the mean scores for this nonradiated group of children were within the average range for the following domains: academic achievement tests of reading, spelling and mathematics, verbal and visual memory, visual-motor integration, social-emotional and behavioral functioning. Furthermore, this group of children were performing within the low average range of overall Intelligence, as well as both verbal IQ/verbal reasoning and performance IQ/abstract visual reasoning. On tasks of fine motor dexterity, this group was within the low average range when using their dominant hand; however, they performed within the borderline range when using their non-dominant hand. Of note, this group of children demonstrated significant deficits within the borderline to impaired ranges on language tasks of expressive picture naming and receptive picture vocabulary.

A network of gene regulation organized in a hierarchical and combinatorial manner is crucially involved in the development of the neural network, and has to be considered one of the main substrates of genetic change in its evolution. Though qualitative features may emerge by way of the accumulation of rather unspecific quantitative changes, it is reasonable to assume that at least in some cases specific combinations of regulatory parts of the genome initiated new directions of evolution, leading to novel capabilities of the brain. These notions are applied, in this paper, to the evolution of the capability of cognition-based human empathy. It is suggested that it has evolved as a secondary effect of the evolution of strategic thought. Development of strategies depends on abstract representations of one's own possible future states in one's own brain to allow assessment of their emotional desirability, but also on the representation and emotional evaluation of possible states of others, allowing anticipation of their behaviour. This is best achieved if representations of others are connected to one's own emotional centres in a manner similar to self-representations. For this reason, the evolution of the human brain is assumed to have established representations with such linkages. No group selection is involved, because the quality of strategic thought affects the fitness of the individual. A secondary effect of this linkage is that both the actual states and the future perspectives of others elicit vicarious emotions, which may contribute to the motivations of altruistic behaviour.

Both lay concept and scientific theory claim that worry may be helpful for defining and analyzing problems. Recent studies, however, indicate that worrisome problem elaborations are less concrete than worry-free problem elaborations. This challenges the problem solving view of worry because abstract problem analyses are unlikely to lead to concrete problem solutions. Instead the findings support the avoidance theory of worry which claims that worry suppresses aversive imagery. Following research findings in the dual-coding framework [Paivio, A. (1971). Imagery and verbal processes. New York: Holt, Rhinehart and Winston; Paivio, A. (1986). Mental representations: a dual coding approach. New York: Oxford University Press.], the present article proposes that reduced concreteness may play a central role in the understanding of worry. First, reduced concreteness can explain how worry reduces imagery. Second, it offers an explanation why worrisome problem analyses are unlikely to arrive at solutions. Third, it provides a key for the understanding of worry maintenance.

The literature was reviewed to abstract items which were claimed to distinguish organic dementia from pseudodementia. Their discriminating powers were tested in a prospective study. Eighteen of these items were selected to create a questionnaire which should distinguish organic dementia from pseudodementia. The gold standard was the final diagnosis given by a consultant psychiatrist 12-14 months later. One hundred and twenty-eight patients referred to our service with a differential diagnosis of depressive pseudodementia were screened using a checklist of 44 characteristic features (in the form of questions with 'yes' or 'no' answers) which were claimed in the literature of differentiate between organic dementia and depressive pseudodementia. This checklist covers the areas of history, clinical data, insight and performance. Forty points (questions) out of the 44 in the checklist showed significant discriminating power to differentiate dementia from depressive pseudodementia (p < 0.01). A principal component and factor analysis was performed from which 18 questions were extracted. The shortened questionnaire was able to classify (43/44 cases) 98% of dementia cases and (60/63) 95% of depression correctly. A new definition has been introduced for 'pseudodementia' as a syndrome of reversible subjective or objective cognitive problems caused by non-organic disorder. Thus depressive pseudodementia may be classified into two subtypes. Type I is a group of patients who have depressive symptoms with subject complaint of dysmnesia without measurable intellectual deficits. Type II is a group of patients who have depressive symptoms and show poor cognitive performance based on poor concentration not due to organic disorder.

The relationship between facial expression and experienced affect presents many problems. The two diametrically opposed positions proposing solutions to this problem are exemplified using the conceptions of Mandler u. Izard. The underlying premises of both conceptions still prevail in various forms. The authors reject the concepts according to which facial expression is merely correlated to the affects (see Mandler 1975) as well as the view that facial expression controls the affects (see Izard 1977). The relationship between affect and facial expression is reexamined, subjecting it to a semiotic, essentially semantic analysis similar to the Ogden and Richards' language and meaning approach. This analysis involves a critical discussion of Scherer's attempt of a purely communicational interpretation using Bühler's organon model. In the author's approach, facial expression is seen not simply as a system of signals, but as a system of representative signs which signify the affects and refer to the emotive meaning of things for the subject. The authors develop the thesis that human beings are not born simply with the ability to speak, but also with the abstract possibility of performing facial expressions. This ability develops by way of coordinating patterns of expressions, which are presumably phylogenetically determined, with affects that take on a socially determined individual form, similar to language acquisition during socialisation. The authors discuss the methodological implications arising for studies investigating the affective meaning of facial expressions.

Anatomical, physiological and functional neuroimaging studies suggest that the cerebellum participates in the organization of higher order function, but there are very few descriptions of clinically relevant cases that address this possibility. We performed neurological examinations, bedside mental state tests, neuropsychological studies and anatomical neuroimaging on 20 patients with diseases confined to the cerebellum, and evaluated the nature and severity of the changes in neurological and mental function. Behavioural changes were clinically prominent in patients with lesions involving the posterior lobe of the cerebellum and the vermis, and in some cases they were the most noticeable aspects of the presentation. These changes were characterized by: impairment of executive functions such as planning, set-shifting, verbal fluency, abstract reasoning and working memory; difficulties with spatial cognition including visual-spatial organization and memory; personality change with blunting of affect or disinhibited and inappropriate behaviour; and language deficits including agrammatism and dysprosodia. Lesions of the anterior lobe of the cerebellum produced only minor changes in executive and visual-spatial functions. We have called this newly defined clinical entity the 'cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome'. The constellation of deficits is suggestive of disruption of the cerebellar modulation of neural circuits that link prefrontal, posterior parietal, superior temporal and limbic cortices with the cerebellum.

The authors report a 63-year-old man with a history of brief isolated manic episodes who became persistently hypomanic after a small right thalamic infarct. Detailed behavioral and neuropsychologic assessment were performed 18 months after the stroke and revealed a prosopoaffective agnosia as the foremost cognitive disorder, i.e., an impairment in the identification of emotional facial expressions with preserved discrimination of facial identity. Difficulties in reasoning on humorous material and other signs of mild right hemisphere dysfunction were present, but other perceptual, frontal and abstract-reasoning cognitive functions were unimpaired. Prosopoaffective agnosia has not been reported previously in thalamic lesions or in primary or secondary mania. The authors discuss the hypothetical relationships between a right hemisphere deficit in processing emotions and relapsing of the patient's hypomanic behavior.

Risk perception is sometimes measured by means of judgments about worry, sometimes as perceived risk more directly. However, perceived level of risk calls for a more intellectual judgment and worry tends to refer to emotional reactions. These two are therefore not the same and need not be strongly correlated. Results reported here show that perceived risk and worry are indeed weakly correlated, both for generalized worry and for more specific measures of worry matched with the same hazard as risk ratings. A distinction is suggested between cognitive, abstract hazards and concrete, sensory hazards, with implications for the worry-perceived risk relationship. It was furthermore found by means of cluster analysis that there were groups of subject displaying different dynamics of risk and worry.

To determine factors that predict decline in manual performance using a multivariate model of determinants of functional limitation. Longitudinal observational study. Ambulatory general medicine clinics, residences of homebound individuals, and a continuing care retirement community. Subjects were 485 persons more than 60 years of age and included continuing care retirement community (CCRC) residents (n = 215), chronically homebound older persons (n = 65), and ambulatory older adults (n = 205). Mean age at baseline was 78 years. Independent variables included demographics, physician measures of upper-extremity joint impairment, comorbidities derived from physical examination and chart abstract, self-assessed arthritis pain, depression, and anxiety. The major dependent variable was 2-year decline in timed manual performance below a threshold associated with need for long-term care services. The proportion of subjects who exceed a Timed Manual Performance Test threshold of 350 seconds increased slowly from baseline through Year 4 for all age groups but rose rapidly from Year 4 to Year 6 for the oldest group (> 85 years at baseline). Using a discrete survival model, we found that age, education, grip strength, and psychological status predicted crossing the manual performance threshold within a 2-year period. The findings, coupled with earlier findings that upper extremity joint impairment predicted both grip strength and manual performance, suggest that joint impairment may be an important risk factor for future functional limitation. Since diminished hand function has been shown to predict dependency, development and testing of interventions to maintain or restore upper extremity joint function and reduce pain would appear to be a high research priority.

This paper discusses a number of principles of the organization of cerebral processes underlying subjective experiences. The concept developed here suggests that these experiences arise as a result of the synthesis of different types of information, this synthesis occurring in various parts of the cortex which have key roles in this mental function. The synthesis is made using information arriving from the external environment, information extracted from memory, and information arriving from motivational centers. The concept is based on studies of the cerebral mechanisms of perception and thought. Experiences are demonstrated to arise as a result of the synthesis, by neurons in the projectional cortex, of data describing the physical and informational properties of a stimulus; the mechanism of the synthesis is a circular movement of excitation from the projectional to the associative regions of the cortex, then to the hippocampus and motivational centers, with return of excitation to the projectional cortex. It is also demonstrated that the process of thought involves convergence of cortical connections on defined centers, which are called interaction foci. Different thought operations are associated with their own specific interaction focus topographies: in imaginative thinking, foci are located in the temporo-parietal cortex, while abstract thinking foci in the frontal cortex. It is suggested that information arriving by means of neural connections is compared and synthesized in interaction foci, and that this provides the basis for decision-making. The final part of this paper addresses the functional importance of mental phenomena and their possible effects on cerebral processes.

Antisocial behavior is a complex phenomenon that arises out of multiple causes involving biologic, psychological, and social forces. Moreover, different forms of violent antisocial behavior may each result from different biopsychosocial pathways. The overview of human psychophysiologic findings presented in this article provides some support for this notion. In particular, the finding of psychophysiologic underarousal (e.g., reduced resting HR and SC levels, increased slow-wave EEG, poor classical conditioning) is one of the most robust and best replicated findings in antisocial populations. The majority of these studies consist of populations exhibiting nonviolent antisocial behavior or milder forms of aggression. Findings of underarousal in institutionalized criminal samples are very few in number and are not well-replicated. The relationship of psychophysiologic underarousal to antisocial behavior, therefore, may be specific to covert forms of antisocial behavior and perhaps to some less severe forms of violent behavior. On the other hand, violence associated with anger and emotional aggression (which is often more impulsive, less controlled, and reactive to some perceived provocation) may have very different psychophysiologic underpinnings. It was suggested that risk factors for emotional aggression include a predisposition to negative affect/arousal and an inability to regulate that affect/arousal. It also was suggested that this effect will be most pronounced in individuals experiencing stressors or adverse social environments, where negative affect and arousal would be increased. Laboratory studies have suggested that overarousal may facilitate aggression in situations in which someone has been provoked. Clinical studies also have indicated a relationship between increased physiologic arousal, negative emotionality, and aggression/antisocial behavior in some populations, with increases in aggression in those also exposed to adverse home environments. Thus, the relationship of increased psychophysiologic arousal to antisocial behavior may be more specific to angry or emotional violence. It is important to note that these psychophysiologic distinctions are speculative for few studies actually have differentiated type of violence in their design. Pitts did group children according to proactive or reactive aggression and found reduced HR levels in both groups, but a substantial increase in HR only in the reactive aggressive group. Lakosina and Trunova found increased SC responsivity in psychopathic individuals characterized by affective violence. These studies provide some initial support for underarousal in proactive/instrumental aggression and overarousal in emotional aggression. It is important, however, that more studies be done with subtypes of violence to test the notion of such differential psychophysiologic patterns. Lastly, some definitional and methodologic considerations need to be mentioned. First, a distinction exists between physiologic arousal and reactivity. Typically, arousal refers to psychophysiologic activity that occurs during a resting state, whereas reactivity refers to activity that occurs in response to some stimulus. Although some studies did assess measures during a resting state, the majority of findings on over-arousal in relation to emotional aggression more accurately reflect psychophysiologic and emotional reactivity to a situation or stimulus. Second, arousal or reactivity are nonspecific terms that can refer to any psychophysiologic response system (e.g., electrodermal, cardiovascular, cortical, and so on). Responses from these systems typically do not correlate in the general population. Thus, it would be worthwhile for future studies to include more than one response system (as done by Raine et al) and see if the arousal/reactivity measures converge. If the measures converge, a general model of arousal or reactivity is supported. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

The main hypothesis developed in the paper proposes that the events of the subjective experience emerge as a result of the synthesis of three kinds of information in crucial for this mental function cortical areas. This information includes sensory one, information derived from memory and one coming from motivational centers. The hypothesis is based on researches of the brain mechanisms of perception and thinking. It has been shown that the sensation emerges as a result of the synthesis of information on physical parameters and of significance of the stimulus in the projection cortex neurons. This synthesis is provided by the circular spreading of the nerve impulses from the projection cortex to associative cortex, then to hippocampus and the hypothalamic motivation centers with the subsequent return of the impulsation to the projection cortex. It have been shown also that at thinking operations the cortical connections converge to define centers named the interaction foci. Their topography is specific for particular thinking operations. Thus in imaginative thinking the foci are located in temporo-parietal and in abstract-verbal thinking--in frontal cortex. It is proposed that the confrontation and the synthesis of information in the interaction foci result in decision making. The last part of the paper concerns the functional role of the subjective events and their possible influence on brain processes.

The number and magnitude of studies involving testosterone-supplementation therapy in older men are limited. In addition, many studies to date have not been blinded or controlled, were reported in abstract form only, and had involved a variety of androgen-replacement regimens and outcomes measurements. Nonetheless, an overview of the data suggests there is real potential for supplementation therapy to improve bone mass and muscle mass and strength in this age group. Affects on mood, sexual function, and cognition are less clear but may be meaningful in certain men. Questions still remain, however, on the magnitude and longevity of the beneficial effects of testosterone supplementation in the older man and whether only certain subgroups of men would truly benefit from therapy. More importantly, the long-term risks of androgen therapy in this age group really are not known, especially in the areas of cardiovascular disease and prostate diseases. Presently, men who use androgen-supplementation therapy for age-related "testosterone deficiency" should consider this as a gamble.

Partial results from a larger Finnish-Polish study on the relations between grandchildren, parents, and grandparents are presented here. The results are based on a content analysis of essays written by 731 Finnish and Polish adolescents between eleven and twenty-one. Older children used more abstract descriptions, girls mentioned more personality features and feelings than boys, and grandmothers, especially maternal grandmothers were described in the most positive terms. The central new finding was that there are highly significant cross-cultural differences in the descriptions of grandparents; the Poles describe them in more abstract terms even after controlling for age and gender. Polish adolescents make more mention of their feelings, their personality, and their skills as well as of emotional/intellectual input from them; they use more positive terms than do the Finns, but make less mention of activities and appearance. These differences between the two cultures are mediated by contact frequency, which through its working on the proximal level enables co-construction of the relationship and the transmission of interactional styles.

With the aim of evaluating the quality of life (QL) of 101 brain tumor patients, a multidimensional approach was adopted, using the Functional Living Index-Cancer (FLIC) as a global measure of well-being, the Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) and the Index of Independence in Activity of Daily Living (ADL) as indices of physical and functional dimensions, the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and the Self-Rating Depression Scale (SRDS) for psychological assessment, and neuropsychological tests for abstract reasoning, attention, memory and frontal lobe functions. The patients were grouped on the grounds of disease stage and treatment. The FLIC and KPS ratings increased from the patients who had just undergone surgery to patients who were disease-free after completing chemotherapy and radiotherapy, thus showing that the QL may improve during the disease despite aggressive treatments, providing there is no tumor recurrence. However, only the FLIC consistently discriminated the patients' stratification. The ADL revealed no between-group differences, whereas the STAI and SRDS revealed the presence of emotional troubles at the beginning and at the end of treatment. Cognitive impairment was more serious after radiotherapy and chemotherapy, as well as in patients with tumor recurrence. The FLIC significantly correlated with all of the other scales used, showing that it is useful in summarizing both the physical and psychosocial impairment of brain tumor patients. Of the pathological variables, a tumor location in the anterior right hemisphere or diencephalon was associated with high FLIC ratings, may be due to the minor cognitive impairment observed in patients with these tumor sites. Of the demographic variables, the level of education was associated with high FLIC ratings, thus highlighting the role of psychosocial environment in improving the QL. The use of a multidimensional approach or a global index of well-being that also reflects psychosocial and cognitive aspects proved to be more appropriate than traditional functional instruments (such as the KPS) in assessing the QL of brain tumor patients and in detecting the extent of the disease.

A systematic search was made in Homer's Iliad for somatic expressions of emotional distress and abstract psychological words for the emotions. A few somatic sensations were found, many somatic metaphors, and an extensive psychological vocabulary of emotions. Homer regarded the heart as the seat of the emotions, intellect and will. It is argued that the increasing sophistication of his 'heart' language reveals a deepening psychological understanding of the emotions in ancient Greece.

Approximately 50% of all cancers occur in persons aged 65 and over (American Cancer Society, 1994). However, the special psychological problems of these patients have been inadequately addressed (Massie & Holland, 1989). The psychosocial needs of older cancer patients were surveyed in this pilot study. Two-thirds of the older adults surveyed experienced concerns or problems. Almost 50% of the sample did not receive adequate assistance in dealing with their emotional needs and 69% did not receive sufficient spiritual support. Older cancer patients experience psychosocial distress and may benefit from professional assistance in dealing with these concerns.

In recognising the importance of narratives of illness we conducted a study on the ability of a specific method to elicit the patient's story. A Five Minute Speech Sample (FMSS) interview was applied to 92 patients with a recent diagnosis of breast cancer. According to Mishler, a complete narrative has six elements: abstract, orientation, complicating action, evaluation, result and coda, with complicating action and evaluation as the essential parts. Of the 92 patients, 50 gave a narrative during the FMSS. One of the narratives is referred in detail. The article advocates giving renewed attention to patients' stories, because they bring the doctor closer to the patients' point of view. This is particularly important when dealing with chronic illness and crises.

The prefrontal cortex is implicated in such human characteristics as volition, planning, abstract reasoning and affect. Frontal-lobe damage can cause disinhibition such that the behaviour of a subject is guided by previously acquired responses that are inappropriate to the current situation. Here we demonstrate that disinhibition, or a loss of inhibitory control, can be selective for particular cognitive functions and that different regions of the prefrontal cortex provide inhibitory control in different aspects of cognitive processing. Thus, whereas damage to the lateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann's area 9) in monkeys causes a loss of inhibitory control in attentional selection, damage to the orbito-frontal cortex in monkeys causes a loss of inhibitory control in 'affective' processing, thereby impairing the ability to alter behaviour in response to fluctuations in the emotional significance of stimuli. These findings not only support the view that the prefrontal cortex has multiple functions, but also provide evidence for the distribution of different cognitive functions within specific regions of prefrontal cortex.

A 67-year-old man presented with acute onset of spatial and temporal disorientation, memory loss and associated episodic dyscontrol. Investigations showed infarctions of both caudate nuclei. This patient presented a unique opportunity to study the relationship between the lesions, his behaviour, and neuropsychological testing. Single case report. Investigations included interviews to determine cognitive impairment, i.e. WAIS-R, MMSE, and neurological examination. Extensive neuropsychological testing revealed severe impairment on tasks requiring planning, memory or abstract thought. These findings are very similar to those seen in Huntington's disease. A neurobiological hypothesis is proposed to account for his symptoms, and recent discoveries in the basic sciences used to inform his management.

Findings from many areas of psychology and neuroscience indicate that inhibitory mechanisms may contribute to relationships between numerous causal variables and an equally diverse set of outcome variables. Outcome variables that implicate inhibition include measures from physiology, perception, attention, action, learning and episodic memory, semantic memory, emotion, and psychopathology. Inhibition-related causal variables include childhood development and aging, hypoxia and other brain insults, and socialization. If confirmed by further research, a theoretical framework with inhibition as one of its core mediating constructs has several strengths, including unified explanations for diverse relationships, mechanistic models for phenomena, insight into the principles that underlie observed relationships, and mechanistic translations of existing abstract, theoretical constructs.

The procedure reported here, which I have called "conversations with superegos," raises a number of important questions, both about ordinary versus psychopathological psychic structure, and about technique. There is no space to enter into a lengthy discussion, but a few brief points may be in order. First, let us consider the issue of psychic structure. I have argued that the superego is a hostile agency within the mind whose operations are essentially inimical to the patient's growth and well-being. (As an element of psychic structure, the superego can be distinguished from the ego ideal on the basis of the associated affect, that is, guilt rather than shame. Similarly, it is possible that the superego may be constructed on the basis of identifications that are different than those that may form the basis of the ego ideal). Further, I have argued that the superego is neither a force for true moral development nor a platform for the voice of the patient's "better" nature, (although it purports to be until challenged). A structure that lies, manipulates, threatens, and appears to be motivated in the end solely by its own continued existence, must certainly be considered suspect as an authority on morality. On the contrary, I see true morality originating in the patient's ego, because in that structure lies the ability to identify with others. One could object, however, that this way of viewing the matter is an artifact of working with a particular patient population. That is to say, it might be the case that in psychotic and borderline psychotic conditions, the superego does function this way, whereas in healthy or neurotic conditions it does not. In a similar vein, it could be argued that a pattern of development that was sufficiently skewed so as to result in psychosis would be more than likely to have been peopled by hostile, punitive, and essentially destructive identification figures, such as could form the basis for a pathological superego, whereas in normal or neurotic development this might not be the case. I would disagree on the following basis: I believe that the course of development is laid out by nature; that is, events like the separation-individuation phase, the oral, anal, phallic, and oedipal phases occur in all of us. It is what happens in the course of that development that will lead either to normalcy or various degrees of pathology. For example, we all project. But it is whether we project an expectation that the next person we meet is a decent, civilized human being or a monster out to destroy us that causes us happiness or pain. That said, my own view of the matter is that the general principal holds for conditions other than the patients reported here, with the difference being one of degree. Where identification figures are essentially benign and foster the development of the self, then their strictures, whether moral or merely practical, would be likely to become assimilated into the ego, without the telltale restriction of reflection and autonomy together with the accompanying guilt that characterize the superego's activity, in which case, we are not talking about superegos at all. What distinguishes psychotic and neurotic development, in my view, is not the issue of whether superego operations are benign or not, but the degree to which the ego is compromised with the resulting formation of fantasy-introjects. I have found, as if it were a principal of physics, that the stronger the ego, the weaker the superego and vice versa. And when some energy of the superego is released, it appears to go directly into the ego without my intervention, though I sometimes ask the "brain's" opinion. The second issue concerns technique. In psychosis, the voice of the superego is very loud, so much so that there are times when I have had to shout to be heard. On the other hand, my patients report that the voice of the ego may be so quiet that the patient hasn't heard it at all, or hears it as a whisper. (ABSTRACT TRUN

Novelty and conditioned fear were used to investigate the effects of psychological stress on fasting small intestinal and colonic myoelectric activity and their relation with behaviour in freely moving rats fitted with bipolar electrodes on proximal jejunum and colon. Rats in both novelty and conditioned fear groups spent a 15 min session in a novel box, where only rats in the fear group received unescapable, repeated foot shock (10 x 6 s, 0.5 mA). Behaviour in groups reexposed to the box on day 1 or day 7 indicated a profound difference in emotional state. Conditioned fear rats remained largely immobile, while novelty rats displayed active exploratory behaviour. Behaviour during conditioned fear did not differ significantly between rats reexposed to the box either 1 or 7 days after foot shock, while novelty animals appeared more aroused on day 7. Conditioned fear on day 1 caused a significant increase in colonic spike burst frequency compared to basal values in the home cage. A smaller but significant increase was found in novelty rats. In groups tested after 7 days, both novelty and conditioned fear resulted in small increases in colonic burst frequency that did not differ significantly from each other. No effects were found on the incidence of the fasting jejunal Migrating Motility Complex. Defecation was see only in conditioned fear rats, but did not differ quantitatively between day 1 and day 7. We conclude that, in the rat, colonic myoelectric spike burst activity is highly responsive to psychological stress, while the fasting pattern of small intestinal activity is more resistant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Altered negative feedback control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system is a frequent laboratory sign of major depression. It coincides with depressive episodes and partially reverses after recovery from psychopathology. Such an HPA disturbance in feedback control can be acquired as a result of stressful life experiences and be compounded by age or it can be genetically predetermined at all levels involved in fine-tuned neuroendocrine regulation. Major psychiatric disorders run in families and a high familial load for an affective illness therefore increases an individual's risk of becoming affected. We investigated whether the HPA feedback disturbance observed among patients with depression is present in otherwise healthy individuals who are at high risk for psychiatric disorders because they have a first-degree relative with an affective illness. Using rigid psychodiagnostic techniques, we screened 431 consecutively admitted patients with depression and identified 35 families with one or more high-risk probands (HRPs). The results of a combined dexamethasone/human corticotropin-releasing hormone (DEX-CRH) test showed that the group of dexamethasone-pretreated (1.5 mg; 23.00 h) HRPs released more cortisol after stimulation with human CRH (100 micrograms; 15.00 h the next day) than a control group (CPs), but less than a group of patients with an acute major depressive episode (DPs). The peak cortisol values were 146.1 +/- 147.7 nmol/l (mean +/- SD) (HRPs), 75.3 +/- 47.9 nmol/l (CPs) and 278.2 +/- 199.2 nmol/l (DPs), yielding significant (F = 9.66, p < 0.001) group differences, with values for HRPs vs. CPs and HRPs vs. DPs being significant at the 1% level (t test).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor ligands were studied in the rat safety signal withdrawal conflict procedure, an operant paradigm sensitive to both anxiolytic and anxiogenic compounds. In this procedure, behavioural suppression of lever pressing for food was induced by the withdrawal of a conditioned signal for safety without the usual presentation of a conditioned signal for danger. The compounds tested were selective CCK-B antagonists [CI-988 (0.01-1 mg/kg SC), L-365,260 (0.004-2 mg/kg IP) and LY 262,691 (0.001-1 mg/kg SC)], CCK-B agonists [CCK-4 (0.01-1 mg/kg SC) and BC 264 (0.004-1 mg/kg IP)] and CCK-A antagonists [devazepide (0.001-1 mg/kg SC) and lorglumide (0.01-1 mg/kg SC)]. None of these drugs induced the expected behavioural effects, i.e. an anxiolytic-like release of the behavioural suppression with CCK-B and, possibly, CCK-A antagonists and/or a further reduction of lever pressing with CCK-B agonists, indicative of an anxiogenic-like potential. In contrast, the established anxiolytic lorazepam (0.06-0.25 mg/kg IP), as well as diazepam (2 mg/kg IP) and buspirone (0.25 mg/kg SC) used as positive control drugs, released the suppression of pressing for food during the period associated with the safety signal withdrawal, whereas picrotoxin (1 mg/kg IP), used as an anxiogenic control, further reduced responding during this conflict period. The present results contrast with a series of published data suggesting the involvement of CCK processes in anxiety-related behaviour in rodent models such as the elevated plus-maze or the light:dark two compartment test, and in panic disorders in humans.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present series of experiments examined the effects of five benzodiazepine receptor (BZR) partial inverse agonists on the behaviour of rats on an elevated plus maze. The drugs were tested in a standard plus maze with 3-cm walls added to the open arms, as this has been shown to increase the sensitivity of the plus maze to anxiogenic-like drugs effects (Jones and Cole 1995). The drugs tested were FG 7142 (0-100 mg/kg), beta-CCE (0-30 mg/kg), ZK 132,556 (0-100 mg/kg), ZK 90 886 (0-30 mg/kg) and Ro 15-4513 (0-30 mg/kg). In addition, to allow a comparison with previous studies, the effects of three reference substances, DMCM (0-2.5 mg/kg), pentylenetetrazol (PTZ; 0-30 mg/kg) and yohimbine (0-5 mg/kg), were also examined. These three reference compounds produced a dose-dependent reduction in the duration of open arm exploration and the total number of open arm entries, indicative of anxiogenic-like effects. DMCM produced significant effects at the doses of 1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, PTZ at 30 mg/kg, and yohimbine at 5 mg/kg. The BZR partial inverse agonist FG 7142 (10, 30 and 100 mg/kg) also reduced the duration of open arm exploration and the total number of arm entries. The minimally effective dose resulted in a receptor occupancy of approximately 80%. Ro 15-4513 also produced anxiogenic-like effects, but only at a dose (30 mg/kg) that resulted in a receptor occupancy of approximately 95%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

During the last decade, serotonin (5-HT)1A receptors have been a major target for neurobiological research and drug development. 5-HT1A receptors have been cloned and a variety of selective agonists, such as the aminotetraline 8-OH-DPAT and the pyrimidinylpiperazine ipsapirone, have become available. Demonstrations of apparent intrinsic activity of these ligands at 5-HT1A receptors, however, depend highly on the particular assay system. This may be due to the possible existence of receptor subtypes and to assay (or brain region)-dependent differences in receptor reserve and the nature of receptor-effector coupling. Nevertheless, the apparent intrinsic activity of 8-OH-DPAT seems to be higher (although possibly not yet maximal) than that of the pyrimidinylpiperazines. In the brain, 5-HT1A receptors are located presynaptically as somatodendritic receptors on 5-HT neurons and postsynaptically in particular limbic and cortical regions. Although it is generally accepted that presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors control 5-HT neuronal activity, recent evidence suggests an additional role of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors in cortex as part of a negative feedback loop. Anxiolytic and antidepressive properties of selective 5-HT1A receptor agonists have now been confirmed by clinical studies. Although it is well established that the latter properties depend on the agonistic activity of these compounds, the optimal level of intrinsic activity is still a matter of debate and may be dependent on the clinical indication. Such compounds may also have antiaggressive effects, and possibly anticraving effects (manifested by their alcohol intake-reducing effects in dependent animals), but the specificity of these so-called anti-impulsivity effects is still controversial and not yet tested clinically. Anticataleptic, antiemetic and neuroprotective properties have been demonstrated in different species. Behavioral studies on the mechanisms underlying the anxiolytic and antidepressive effects have examined the relative contribution of pre- and postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors by means of local cerebral application and lesion techniques. Most evidence points towards a critical involvement of presynaptic receptors in the anxiolytic effects of 5-HT1A receptor agonists (although a possible contribution of postsynaptic receptors cannot be excluded). With regard to the antidepressive properties, a case can be made for the reverse; i.e., a strong involvement of postsynaptic receptors and a questionable contribution of presynaptic receptors. However, as the therapeutic effects of those 5-HT1A receptor (partial) agonists which have been tested clinically require repeated administration, attention has been directed increasingly towards chronic studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The depression scale (Zung Self-rating Depression Scale) and the anxiety scale (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory) have often been used to study the mental health of workers. We carried out a comparative study to determine which these two scales more clearly reflects the work stress. We used two methodologically different materials: a questionnaire survey and mental health consultation records. The questionnaire was sent to 885 male workers in a large industrial company and its related companies, and the consultation cases were 84 male workers coming from the area where the questionnaire survey was conducted. The work problem questionnaire was factored and the four work factors that were obtained were used in the succeeding analyses. The results of the questionnaire survey showed that depression had a higher multiple correlation with the four work factors than did the state anxiety. Similarly, the consultation cases, in which the main symptom was depression, accounted for a little more than 40% of all cases, but the anxiety cases accounted for only 10%-20%. Both studies indicated that depression is a more important manifestation of work stress than anxiety. The questionnaire survey also showed that the "quality-of-work" factor and the "work-quantity/environment" factor had relatively high standardized partial regression coefficients, when depression was predicted by the four work factors. In the case of the consultation cases, more than 50% of the depressive cases were caused by overload. Since the "work-quantity/environment" factor was considered to be closely related to overload, the salient relation between depression and overload agrees with the results of the consultation research.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Two experiments were conducted to study the effects of cage density on fear-related behavioral response and activity of White Leghorn layers. In Experiment 1, 20-wk old pullets were placed into 30.5 x 50.8 cm cages at the rate of one, two, three, and four birds per cage for Treatments 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. In Experiment 2, birds were placed into cages (30.5 x 50.8 cm) at the rate of one, two, three, four, three, two, and three birds per cage for Treatments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, respectively, at 20 wk of age. At 28 wk of age, one bird was removed from each cage in Treatment 5, and one bird was added to each cage in Treatments 6 and 7. Fear-related behavioral response of the birds, as determined by the duration of induced tonic immobility (TI), and bird activity, as determined by the head movement (HM) count, were measured at 52 wk of age in Experiment 1, and at 29, 36, and 52 wk of age in Experiment 2. Increasing cage density had no effect on fear-related response of the birds in both experiments. Cage density effect on bird activity was not consistent. In Experiment 1, HM count was not affected by cage density, whereas in Experiment 2, pullets in the multiple-bird cage had a lower (P < or = .05) HM count (three-period average) than the birds housed individually. There was no correlation between the duration of induced TI and HM count in both experiments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study represents the first effort to assess systematically the cognitive functioning of a population of individuals with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome using standardized psychometric instruments. Seven residents from a special hospital setting participated. They ranged in age from 10 years 1 month to 22 years 3 months (mean 13 years 7 months). Using the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale: IV, scores in each of the four domains assessed by this battery (Verbal Reasoning, Abstract/Visual Reasoning, Quantitative and Short-Term Memory), as well as the general composite score, ranged from moderately mentally retarded to low average. Areas of weakness included attention, the manipulation of complex visual images, the comprehension of complex or lengthy speech, mathematical ability, and multi-step reasoning.

Dopamine is equally well deaminated oxidatively by monoamine oxidase (MAO) A and B types. Selegiline (L-deprenyl), a selective inhibitor of MAO-B, ameliorates the "wearing off" akinesia and delays the need for levodopa in mild, previously untreated Parkinson's disease. The therapeutic potential of selective inhibition of MAO-A in Parkinson's disease has not been examined in detail. MAO-A accounts for only about 20% of total MAO activity in the human basal ganglia, and it differs from MAO-B in distribution. In contrast to MAO-B, which is confined to the extraneuronal compartment, MAO-A is found both extraneuronally and within the presynaptic dopaminergic terminals. The inhibition of MAO-A might alter the intraneuronal handling of dopamine reuptaken from synaptic clefts and thereby prolong oral levodopa benefit. We have given moclobemide, a selective, reversible inhibitor of MAO-A, to nondepressed patients with Parkinson's disease receiving standard levodopa/peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor or levodopa with dopaminergic agonist (bromocriptine, pergolide). Selegiline was discontinued at least 8 weeks earlier. A standard oral levodopa challenge was performed at the patient's entry to the study and repeated on the 22nd day of moclobemide treatment (150 mg thrice daily). The overall time spent "on" and "off" before the onset of treatment and during the last week on the drug was estimated from the patients' diaries. Neuropsychological assessments were also made before and after 3 weeks of moclobemide to measure possible effects on cognitive performance and mood. In acute levodopa challenge, the latency of motor response was significantly shortened and its duration was prolonged during moclobemide treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This was a prospective, double-blind, randomized, multicenter trial comparing moclobemide once daily (OD) with three times daily (TDS) dosing. The duration of the study was 6 weeks with the initial dose of moclobemide being 450 mg/day (either 450 mg in the morning or 150 mg three times daily). Placebo tablets were used to ensure that the study was double blind. After 2 weeks, the dose could be increased to 600 mg/day if tolerability was acceptable and efficacy was judged insufficient by the investigator. Patients were assessed at baseline and at days 3, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 42. Efficacy was primarily judged on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) (17item). Patients had to score at least 17 to enter the study. Safety and tolerability were judged on reported adverse events, safety parameters, premature withdrawals, and a physicians' global tolerability rating. There were also three secondary efficacy parameters--the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety, Visual Analogue Scales for pain and irritability, and physicians' Clinical Global Impression (CGI). A total of 130 evaluable patients were required to detect a difference of more than 20% (alpha = 0.05 and beta = 0.8) between groups. A total of 189 patients entered the study, and the standard analysis comprised 145 patients. The efficacies between the two dosing regimens as determined by the HAM-D score and from the CGI were found not to differ significantly. For the standard analysis population, there was a reduction in mean HAM-D of 73.8 and 72.9% for the OD and TDS groups, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Lesions placed in the rostral perirhinal cortex (rPRh) after fear conditioning interfere with the expression of conditioned fear responses elicited by auditory and visual conditioned stimuli when these stimuli are presented in a context that differs from the conditioning context. The present study examined whether lesions of the rPRh have similar effects when animals are tested in the conditioning context. Two days after male rats received classical fear conditioning, involving the pairing of an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) with footshock, bilateral electrolytic lesions were produced in the rPRh. Five days later conditioned freezing behavior was measured during a 60-s exposure to the CS in a novel context and then 1 hr later in the conditioning context. There were 3 major findings. First, rPRh-lesioned animals froze significantly less than controls to the CS in the novel context, thus confirming previously reported findings. Second, rPRh-lesioned animals also froze less than controls to the CS in the conditioning context, but froze significantly more to the CS in the conditioning than in the novel context, suggesting that at least part of the deficit in the novel context is due to the absence of contextual cues. Third, animals with rPRh lesions froze significantly less than controls to the conditioning context itself. This latter finding suggests that rPRh lesions interfere with contextual processing and that the improvement of performance in the conditioning context might have been even greater had lesioned animals been able to fully process contextual cues.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Dietary restraint is a characteristic associated with greater increase in food intake after smoking cessation, and salivation is a marker of physiological responsiveness to food that may be influenced by cessation. The present study examined the effect of brief smoking abstinence (16 h) vs. no abstinence on salivary and subjective responses to food taste cues in women smokers high vs. low in dietary restraint (n = 10 each). On each of two days (smoking abstinence vs. nonabstinence), salivary volume was assessed during each of 10 trials involving presentation of a small sample of strawberry yogurt. Decline in salivation over trials is indicative of habituation, or reduction in physiological responsiveness to taste cues, and may be a marker of satiety. Subjects also completed self-report measures of hunger, taste liking, desire for cigarette, and emotional arousal during each trial. A 10-min period of ad lib consumption of yogurt ended each session. Results showed significantly elevated salivary response to the first trial of taste exposure in high vs. low restraint women, especially on the smoking day. Moreover, salivary habituation was significantly disrupted by smoking abstinence, especially over the first 5 trials, in high restraint but not low restraint women. High restraint women also reported increasing desire for cigarette and emotional arousal across food taste trials on both days, while low restraint women reported no change in each over trials. There were no differences in ad lib yogurt consumption. These results indicate that brief smoking abstinence attenuates salivary habituation to taste in high restraint women, suggesting a marker for processes responsible for increased food intake after quitting smoking.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The recent cloning of a breast-ovarian cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA1), and determination of the locus of a related gene (BRCA2), offers potential for clinical genetic testing for breast cancer susceptibility. This study examined interest in and expectations about an impending genetic test among first-degree relatives (FDRs) of breast cancer patients. One hundred five females completed two structured telephone interviews to assess demographics, breast cancer risk factors, psychological factors, and attitudes about genetic testing for breast cancer susceptibility. Overall, 91% of FDRs said that they would want to be tested, 4% said they would not, and 5% were uncertain. The most commonly cited reasons for wanting genetic testing were to learn about one's children's risk, to increase use of cancer screening tests, and to take better care of oneself. Women with less formal education were motivated by childbearing decisions and future planning to a greater degree than were women with education beyond high school. Most women anticipated a negative psychological impact of positive test results, involving increased anxiety (83%), depression (80%), and impaired quality of life (46%). In addition, 72% of women indicated that they would still worry if they tested negative. In multivariate regression analysis, level of baseline depression was the strongest predictor of an anticipated negative impact of genetic testing (Beta = .15; P, .0001). These results suggest that the demand for genetic testing for breast cancer susceptibility may be great, even among women who are not likely to have predisposing mutations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The authors have attempted to evaluate the extent to which menopausal crisis is linked to hypoestrogenism and the extent to which it is linked to the socioenvironmental context in which it takes place. The study analyses emotional and cognitive aspects in a group of women in temporary menopause which was pharmacologically induced for therapeutic purposes. The study was carried out in 30 patients suffering from benign gynecological pathologies receiving ovarian steroidogenesis-blocking treatment. Treatment consisted of a subcutaneous administration of a Gn-Rh analog every 28 days for 6 months. After having collected information regarding the symptoms that appeared following the administration of therapy, the authors evaluated the emotive (anxiety and depression) and cognitive (short-term memory and concentration) conditions of patients using psychometric reactives performed during the first check-up, and then repeated at the 3rd, 5th and 7th control visit: the State-Trait-Anxiety-Inventory to assess trait anxiety and state anxiety; scale D of the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory to assess depression; the sub-test for memory of figures from Wechsler-Bellevue Intelligence Scale to evaluate short-term memory; the Toulouse-Pieron reactive to evaluate attention and concentration. The results obtained were analysed statistically using Student's t-test and Pearson's coefficient. An analysis of the data shows that, after the first doses of the drug stress trends to diminish from the high levels recorded at the first visit, stabilising at normal values throughout treatment. Like anxiety and depression, concentration and memory do not show marked variations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The aim of this study was to correlate dental anxiety as reported by two different ethnic groups with socio-demographic factors, dental status, and dental behaviour. Two randomly selected populations aged 35-44 years and 65-74 years were interviewed. The populations comprised 214 and 99 Danes and 384 and 497 Hong Kong Chinese respectively. Dental anxiety was assessed by the Corah Dental Anxiety Score (DAS). Mean DAS scores were significantly higher in Chinese than in Danes (8.7-10.3 and 6.7-8.2, respectively) and higher in the younger than in the older groups. Moderate to phobic dental anxiety was reported by 15% of the Danes and 30% of the Chinese, the latter proportion far beyond what is usually reported in Western populations. Only in the Chinese group did women report more anxiety than men. Regression analysis indicated that only a few of the variables selected to explain anxiety determinants had significant explanatory value. Among Chinese, gender was the most predominant in both age groups followed by perceived condition of teeth in the younger age group. Among Danes, perceived condition of teeth had an explanatory value for both age groups and dental visit pattern was the strongest for the younger age group. In spite of statistical significance, all explanatory values were small and indicate that variables not included in this analysis may exert a greater influence on the variation in dental anxiety. DAS, seemingly, was able to highlight variations in dental anxiety in the populations in spite of their differences and made interpretations feasible with regard to contrasting dental care behaviour and dental status.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Marked differences were observed across strains of mice (i.e., DBA/2J, C57BL/6J, BALB/cByJ and CD-1 mice) in acquisition, performance and reversal of a place learning response in a Morris water-maze. While DBA/2J, C57BL/6J and CD-1 mice typically learned the response readily, only 20% of BALB/cByJ mice acquired the response. Commensurate with the effects of hippocampal disturbances, the performance deficits in BALB/cByJ mice were not evident when the position of the platform in the water-maze was cued. Exposure to uncontrollable foot shock did not affect the acquisition or performance of this response in the former three strains, but provoked a modest disruption of reversal performance in DBA/2J mice and markedly impaired reversal performance in BALB/cByJ mice. It seemed, however, that the response strategies adopted in these strains could be distinguished from one another. In the reversal paradigm BALB/cByJ mice initially persisted in returning to the original training quadrant rather than to the new goal quadrant. Following 2 days of training the perseveration was no longer apparent and animals seemed to adopt a random search strategy. In contrast, DBA/2J mice, which exhibited a smaller stress-induced disturbance, did not display a perseverative response style. These data suggest that inescapable shock does not disturb response-outcome associations, but may result from the induction of a perseverative response style. However, it appears that the mechanisms responsible for an interference of performance may not be uniform across strains.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There has been the clinical impression that people with higher levels of anxiety and central arousal are more prone to develop cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP), but this notion has not been formally studied. In the current study, we examined the differences between 28 CIP-endorsing and 16 CIP-denying chronic cocaine users in their levels of state and trait anxiety as measured by the Spielberger State-Tait Anxiety Inventory. We also studied levels of central arousal and reactivity using pupil size measures both during exposure to neutral, abstract, non-drug cues, and after exposure to a cocaine cue. Levels of trait (but not state) anxiety were significantly higher in the CIP group than in the non-CIP group. Moreover, while there were no significant pupil size differences or changes between the two groups while viewing neutral, abstract video images, the CIP group had significantly greater pupillary dilation in response to a video image of crack cocaine than did the non-CIP group. These significant differences remained even after covarying for anxiety scores. The study findings seem relevant to studies of autonomic reactivity in response to drug cues in cocaine-dependent patients; such studies might remain attentive to potential cue reactivity differences between patients endorsing and those denying CIP. Finally, this is the first study showing higher trait anxiety in patients with CIP.

The goal of this study was to determine if there was a difference in the quality of life (QoL) between patients receiving bioprosthetic (Biocor, BIO) or mechanical (St. Jude Medical, SJM) valve prosthesis. In January 1993 we assessed the psychological outcome of heart valve surgery among 183 (87 BIO, 96 SJM) of 220 survivors in a selected and matched cohort of 140 BIO and 140 SJM recipients who had their valve replacement between 1983 and 1989. The BIO and SJM groups were equal in terms of mean age, gender, valve position, educational level, marital status and follow up time. Questions concerning QoL, in terms of coping capacity, social support, and general emotional status as well as emotions concerning valve-related complications, were answered by the patients marking a non-graded visual analogous scale, ranging from total agreement to total disagreement. We found no significant difference between patients receiving BIO and those receiving SJM prostheses regarding coping capacity (62 +/- 2 vs. 65 +/- 2), social support (77 +/- 3 vs. 76 +/- 2), or emotional status (63 +/- 3 vs. 65 +/- 3). When subdividing patients by age below and above 60 years, gender, functional class, valve position and complication, we found several significant differences, but the two prosthetic groups were largely similar. Females had a significantly lower level of coping capacity and emotional status than males. Coping capacity and emotional status were significantly correlated with functional class, while social support was not. Coping capacity tended to be lower among patients who had experienced complications and this was more pronounced with BIO.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

My purpose in writing this article was to offer observations and helping strategies to nurse-colleagues who deal with depressed elderly. The process begins (as always) with careful assessment and a willingness to adapt strategies to changing needs. Change is expected--both in assessment data and in clients' behavior. This model is client-driven. The client defines her needs, her goals, her feelings, and her solutions. When the nurse offers suggestions, it is only to "prime the pump." The nurse must have no vested interest in the ultimate use of those suggestions. In fact, there is cause to rejoice when a client discards them in favor of her own. The nurse must avoid being cast in the role of referee or judge in working with Angry Depressed clients. Who is "to blame" in clients' ruptures with the family and/or friends is outside the nurse's area of concern. The focus is on healing those ruptures if the client wishes to do so and for the client's sake. Within the framework of Erikson's eighth stage, the client's task has been to resolve the tension between the polar extremes of integrity and despair. The tools at hand for accomplishing this task have been the client's intrinsic strengths and the nurse's professional skills. "Dorothy" and "Julia" have had some degree of success in this endeavor, placing them at positions closer to integrity on an integrity-despair continuum. Others have had less positive resolutions. Still others are "in process." One woman in her 80s has resumed telephone contact with her daughter after a long hiatus, but is still estranged from her son.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Extracts from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba have been suggested to be useful in the treatment of various symptoms of impaired brain functions in advanced age. To elucidate specific mechanisms of the possible clinical benefit, the effects of Ginkgo biloba extract Ginkobene on cognitive information-processing were investigated by means of long-latency auditory event-related potentials. In a double-blind placebo-controlled study, 48 patients (29 women and 19 men) aged between 51 and 79 years with the diagnosis of age-associated memory impairment had 57 days' treatment with a daily dosage of 3 x 40 mg Ginkobene or placebo. To evaluate acute, chronic, and superimposed drug effects, psychophysiological investigations were carried out on day 1 and day 57 before and 3 hours after drug administration. ERP investigations were carried out by means of a two-tone auditory oddball paradigm. In addition to 17 EEG leads, vertical and horizontal EOGs were recorded. After minimizing ocular artifacts and visual artifact rejection, latencies and topographic distributions of N1 and P2 components (non-targets) and N2 and P300 components (targets) were calculated by an automatic procedure. When compared to the placebo group, in the Ginkobene group no consistent and unequivocal changes on N1, P2, N2, and P300 amplitudes or on N1, P2, and N2 latencies were observed. P300 latency was shortened by 31 ms, 38 ms, and 32 ms in the Ginkgo biloba group after acute, chronic, and superimposed drug administration. It may therefore be hypothesized that the decrease of P300 latency in the Ginkgo biloba group may reflect shorter stimulus-evaluation time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This paper examines the biochemical and behaviour changes induced by an acute stress (five 10-s, 1-mA foot-shocks) in three groups of rats: (1) never stressed, (2) subjected to chronic variate stress for 20 days, (3) subjected to the same chronic stress and treated with 5 mg/kg per day amitriptyline. After 15 min, acute stress led to a marked reduction in cortical beta-adrenoceptor and 5-HT2 receptor density, whereas the density of the 5-HT1A receptors was unchanged. Chronic stress also increased beta-adrenoceptor and 5-HT2 receptor density and had no effect on 5-HT1A. Acute stress diminished the density of beta-adrenoceptors in chronically stressed animals, but did not alter that of the two 5-HT populations. Amitriptyline alone reduced beta-adrenoceptor and 5-HT2 receptor densities only. Acute stress applied to animals treated with amitriptyline reduced 5-HT1A receptors, and caused a further beta-adrenoceptor decrease, but had no further effect on the 5-HT2 receptors. On behaviour, chronic stress diminished reactivity to the acute stress. This reduction was fully abolished by amitriptyline. An open-field study showed that acute stress reduced motor activity, increased latency times and diminished rearing in the controls, whereas chronic stress reduced motor activity only. No significant changes in behaviour were induced by the acute stress in animals subjected to chronic stress. The combination of chronic stress with amitriptyline was accompanied by a diminution of exploratory activity that persisted after the acute stress.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Nitrous oxide (N2O) has analgesic properties as determined in both animal and human research. In the present study, we sought to determine whether N2O given in subanesthetic concentrations would reduce cold pressor (CP)-induced pain. A crossover, double-blind study was conducted in 10 healthy volunteers. Each subject participated in four separate sessions, and in each session the effects of one of four concentrations of N2O in oxygen (0, 20, 30, and 40%) were assessed. The duration of inhalation was 40 min, and within each session, subjects immersed their nondominant arm in water (2-3 degrees C) twice for 3 min (at 10 and 30 min intrainhalation). Pain intensity, the degree to which the pain was bothersome (measured on a verbal scale of 0-10, 0 = "not at all" and 10 = "extremely" painful/bothersome), and pain quality [measured by the short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ)] were assessed during the forearm immersion. Mood effects were measured with the use of visual analogue scales (VAS) in the presence and absence of pain. Self-reported pain intensity and bothersomeness, SF-MPQ ratings of "sharp pain" and "throbbing pain," and VAS rating of "unpleasant bodily sensations" were significantly reduced by N2O (p < 0.05) in a concentration-dependent manner. Nitrous oxide had a number of effects on mood (e.g., increased VAS ratings of "stimulated," "high," "coasting," "carefree," and "having pleasant bodily sensations"). The cold-water immersion also influenced mood, but had little impact on modulating N2O effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Extraction is the final step in a continuous process in which oral health-related factors and psycho-social processes play a role. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the patient's perception of the decision-making process leading to the extraction of permanent teeth and to determine whether and how patient-associated characteristics might influence who made the decision to extract and if the patients felt they had any influence on the dentist's decision. A national random sample of Norwegian dentists (n = 500) recorded reasons for tooth extraction during a period of 2 weeks in 1988. A total of 437 patients responded (73%), of whom 54% were women. Nearly 33% of the respondents stated that it was their own decision to extract, while about two thirds said that the dentist had suggested extraction. Whether the dentist or the patient made the decision to extract teeth was significantly influenced by the patient's dental attendance pattern, place of residence, number of teeth and belief in retention of his/her own teeth for life (P < 0.05). There was no significant bivariate effect of patients' age, sex, educational level, or score on Corah's Dental Anxiety Scale on who made the decision to extract. Only 0.4% of patients said that family, friends or colleagues had influenced the decision to have teeth extracted. A logistic regression analysis with: "Was it the dentist or the patient who made the suggestion to extract teeth?" as the dependent variable, and the four bivariately significant independent variables showed for all patients that none had a significant effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Clozapine has been shown to be effective in treating schizophrenic patients. In this study we compare the efficacy of clozapine in two groups of treatment resistant psychotics (among the most severe inpatients). 5 chronic schizophrenics (CS). Age 49.6 +/- 12 (paranoid, disorganized residuals). 14 "mixed" patients (MP). Age 34.6 +/- 13, between: major affective disorders (MAD) with mood incongruent psychotic features; schizo affective disorders (SAD). 19 patients (11 females -8 males) have been involved in our trial. They receive 400 up to 800 mg/day of clozapine for a minimum of 12 months and a maximum of 38 months. Treatment responders were defined on the evaluation of the following criteria: scores PANSS-CGI-MADRS (not for the first patients); number of relapses; response to socialisation (exit); quality of life. The results even if based on small sample sizes were classified as: Improvement -->reduction of all major symptoms: patient exit. CS:2/5 (40%); MP:5/14 (35%). Improvement++-->decrease of most major symptoms. CS:1/5 (20%); MP:5/14 (35%). Improvement+-->decrease of one or few major symptoms. CS:2/5 (40%); MP: 1/14 (8%). Failure-->3 from the MP subgroup (16%), 1 leucopenia, 1 worsening, 1 non responder). These finding show that affective disorders and schizoaffective patients are as likely to respond to clozapine as the schizophrenic patients: 60% of the CS and 70% of the MP were very much ( ) and much improved (++). The data also suggest that in the subtype of MP high scores of response occur with the youngest and most recently ill patients (< 30 years, < 18 months).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Taking into account the wellknown frequency of depressive and extrapyramidal symptoms in schizophrenia and the rare studies about their evolution, several questions can be raised: How do these different symptoms move? Are there specific characters of each of them? First, stability of negative symptoms evaluated by the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) was studied among 57 schizophrenic patients at admission and at discharge. The course of negative symptoms was compared to that of depressive MADRS (Montgomery et Asberg Depression Rating Scale) and akinetic symptoms (Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale). All the subscores of the SANS decreased significantly but 4 items belonging to the affective flattening subscale and one item belonging to the alogia subscale did not vary significantly, showing the necessity of taking into account the individual items of the SANS rather than the subscale scores to evaluate the course of negative symptoms. Changes in all the SANS subscores except the alogia and anhedonia subscores were associated with variations in scores of other scales. Correlations between the changes of negative symptoms and the changes of depressive symptoms showed the necessity to do more specific scales, for example, scales for depression in schizophrenia. Langlois-Théry et al. (1994) evaluated among 53 schizophrenic patients stabilized with neuroleptic treatment, depressive symptomatology with Echelle de Ralentissement Dépressif (ERD, Widlöcher, 1983) and MADRS, negative symptomatology (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale) and akinesia (ESRS), to determinate whether ERD composed of 3 subscores (motor, ideic and subjective) could be able to evaluate the depressive symptomatology, independently of the measures of negative and akinetic symptomatology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Poor patient compliance with inhaled medication is known to cause morbidity and mortality in asthma. The reasons for nonadherence are not fully understood. We wondered whether psychological factors, such as patient attitudes to asthma and its treatment, anxiety, depression, and interpersonal problems, may be related to asthma self-care and compliance. In a prospective study, 102 patients with asthma, aged 18-70 yrs, requiring treatment with regular inhaled corticosteroids and beta-agonists were recruited from a hospital out-patient clinic and four general practices in South East London. They underwent psychological assessment using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), the Inventory of Interpersonal Problems (IIP), and a semi-structured interview focusing on patient attitudes, self-care, compliance, social support and treatment beliefs. Patients were given terbutaline and budesonide turbohalers to use twice daily over 12 weeks. Turbohaler Inhalation Computers (TICs) recorded each inhalation, providing a measurement of compliance. Seventy two patients completed the study. Thirty seven took less than 70% of the prescribed dose over the study period or omitted doses for 1 week and were defined as noncompliant. The noncompliant group had a higher mean (SD) score for depression (4.7 (3.3)) than the compliant group (3.2 (2.5)). The sample had a high mean (SD) score for anxiety (8.3 (4.4)), but there was no significant difference between the compliant and noncompliant groups. Patients' self-report and clinicians' impressions of compliance were not good predictors of actual compliance. Using discriminant analysis, a model was obtained from the questionnaires and interview items, which correctly classified 74% of the patients as compliant or non-compliant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The primary purpose of this study was to identify variables that affect cadaveric donor family satisfaction with the donation process and coping with grief. A secondary purpose was to describe the variation of respondents from two different donor populations to establish whether donor families in one geographic region differ from donor families in another. A survey was mailed to 233 families over a 16-month period. Data analysis of returned surveys was based on frequency distributions, measures of association and factor analysis. Identical items in the Regional Organ Bank of Illinois (ROBI) Survey and the Hartford Transplant Center (HOPO) Survey were compared and tested for significance. Eighty-nine percent of the donor families understood what "brain death" meant, and 85% felt that the donation request was appropriate when it was made less than 6 hours after a diagnosis of brain death. Family members provided the most helpful information about donation to other family members 65% of the time. The two most important reasons for donation were "to make something positive come out of the death" and "family member's belief in helping others". These responses also ranked highest in the HOPO survey. The support of family, friends and religion were the most frequent coping mechanisms for grief. In comparing responses from ROBI and HOPO, significant differences were found on two items relating to agency procedure, but no significant differences were found when family responses were compared. Factors were identified which predicted the desire to donate, the likelihood of increased stress and a "sharing" factor that related to the wishes of the family member and further participation with the organ procurement organization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Onset and time course of antidepressant effect were examined in 47 patients with major depressive disorder who had been randomly assigned to twice weekly bilateral, brief pulse electroconvulsive therapy plus one simulated treatment per week (ECTx2) or to a three times weekly schedule of administration (ECTx3). Rapid improvement was observed in the ECTx3 group in whom the number of real ECTs to 30% reduction on the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D) was 3.2 +/- 1.90, administered over 7.3 +/- 4.43 days and to 60% reduction, 5.9 +/- 3.09 real ECTs over 13.7 +/- 7.21 days. Among the responders in both groups combined, 24.3 +/- 29.58% of the overall improvement in HAM-D was contributed by the first real ECT, 60.9 +/- 28.13% by the first four real ECTs and 91.6 +/- 25.82% by the first eight. Although 85.3% of the responders had reached 60% HAM-D improvement after eight ECTs, a clinically significant minority (14.7%) responded later in the course (ECT 9-12). However, response was predictable on the basis of symptomatic improvement (30% on the HAM-D) by the sixth real ECT. Thirty-three out of 34 responders would have been correctly identified by this criterion and only 2 out of 13 non-responders mis-identified (P < 0.000001). Once achieved, the antidepressant effect was stable, without continuation pharmacotherapy, until 1 week after the last treatment and on lithium carbonate (Li) or Li plus clomipramine for a further 3 weeks. These findings confirm the clinical impression that ECT is a rapidly effective treatment for major depression with a shorter latency than generally reported for antidepressant drugs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Stress hormones, tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA) antigen, left-ventricular diastolic function and mood immediately before and after listening to three different kinds of music (a waltz by J. Strauss, a piece of modern classic by H. W. Henze, and meditative music by R. Shankar) were measured in 20 healthy persons (10 women, 10 men; mean age 25 [20-33] years) and 20 hypertensives (8 women, 12 men; mean age 57.5 [25-72] years). To recognise haemodynamic effects, mitral flow by Doppler ultrasound was used as a measure of left-ventricular diastolic function. Atrial filling pressure (AFF) was calculated from the flow integral (VTI) of the early E and the late A waves. The Zerssen scale was used to estimate the immediate mood of the subjects. In hypertensives the levels of cortisol (74 vs 78 ng/ml; P < 0.05) and t-PA antigen (4.3 vs 4.5 ng/ml; P < 0.05) were lower after than before the Strauss waltz. The muscle by Henze lowered the concentrations of cortisol (70 vs 84 ng/ml; P < 0.05), noradrenaline (203 vs 224 ng/l; P < 0.05) and t-PA antigen (4.1 vs 4.6 ng/ml; P < 0.05). After listening to the piece by Shankar the concentrations of cortisol (71 vs 78 ng/ml; P < 0.05), adrenaline 14.5 vs 24.5 ng/ml; P < 0.05) and t-PA antigen (4.2 vs 4.3 ng/ml; P < 0.05) were lower. In healthy subjects AFF (29 vs 26%; P < 0.05) rose after the Strauss music, VTI-E fell (69 vs 73 mm; P < 0.05, while natriuretic peptide rose (63 vs 60 pg/ml; P < 0.05.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The focus in predictive testing for Huntington disease is beginning to shift from individuals at risk to an examination of the effects on other relatives, particularly on spouses and partners. We examine the effects of participating in a predictive testing program for 25 couples. When assessed prior to testing, spouses were significantly more depressed than their at-risk partners. After pretest counseling, 6 (24%) of the couples chose not to pursue testing. At baseline, these 6 couples had significantly higher levels of psychological distress and marital dysfunction than couples who did choose to complete testing. Of the 19 couples completing testing, 5 received an increased risk result and 14 received a decreased risk result. Prior to testing, the partners of individuals who later received an increased risk result exhibited higher levels of marital distress. At 3- and 6-month follow-ups, high-risk couples were significantly more distressed than low-risk couples. These levels of distress improved somewhat at 9 months after testing, but began to climb again at 12 months. Individuals at increased risk were significantly more distressed at all points during follow-up as compared to individuals at low risk. No significant differences were found between the partners of high- and low-risk individuals at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after disclosure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A mother's "holding" environment has been shown to be effective in reducing infant crying and irritability. When mothers hold or cuddle their infants they create a microenvironment with stimuli similar to those of the intrauterine environment. Several of these same stimuli were incorporated into a cradle designed to provide a similar "holding" environment for the infant when the mother was not there. Ninety healthy term newborn infants were randomized to an experimental (n = 45) or control group (n = 45). The experimental group used a cradle that produced motion, sound, tactile (containment), and reduced-light stimuli at stimulus levels that initially approximated intrauterine sensory stimulation levels and gradually decreased to the levels of the home environment over 16 weeks. The control group used an identical cradle with no stimulus modulation features. Infants were placed in their respective cradles from 2 hours after birth during the times they would normally be placed in an infant bed. The mother-infant interaction or parenting style was not changed or manipulated. Mothers' use of the cradles did not differ significantly. An electronic status monitor measured and recorded infant presence and crying in the cradles. The Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale test was done at 1 to 2, 14, and 24 days of age by "blinded" examiners. Additionally, phone calls and home visits were conducted by a registered nurse.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The relationship between compliance and outcome is poorly understood, partially because there has been no gold standard for measuring compliance in hemodialysis patients. To investigate interrelationships between psychological, medical, and compliance factors, hemodialysis (HD) patients were studied with the Beck Depression Inventory, and a subset, the Cognitive Depression Index, the Perception of Illness Effects scale, and the Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support. Behavioral compliance was measured in three ways: (1) percent time compliance (signifying "shortening behavior"); (2) percent attendance (signifying "skipping behavior) (3) percent total time compliance, assessing patients' time on dialysis normalized for prescribed time, including all shortenings and absences. Standard compliance indicators (predialysis serum potassium and phosphorus concentrations and interdialytic weight gain) were also analyzed. The patients' mean Beck Depression Inventory was in the range of mild depression. The prevalence of depression was 25.5%. Both depression indices correlated with Perception of Illness Effects scale scores. In general, social support was related to both measures of depression and perception of illness effects. Total time compliance was 95.8 +/- 5.0%. Younger patients were more likely to skip treatments compared with older patients. Time compliance comprised a wide spectrum, with most patients relatively compliant, whereas a small proportion received far less than their prescribed dialysis. Skipping and shortening behaviors did not correlate, suggesting that these constitute two separate types of noncompliant behaviors. Time compliance parameters did not correlate with potassium levels or interdialytic weight gain, but did correlate with phosphorus levels. Interrelationships between behavioral compliance measures and other parameters varied between units and patients of different gender. Finally, behavioral compliance patterns were stable over months in patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Quantitative EEG analysis was done on 29 medicated right-handed depressive patients at age over 45 and age and sex matched right-handed 20 normal controls. The patients were all diagnosed as major depression with melancholia by DSM-III-R and were divided into anxiety type (n = 17) and retardation type (n = 12) evaluated with the Hamilton rating scale for depression. Eye closed resting EEGs were recorded on a data recorder from the 16 electrode leads (10-20 system). Artifact rejected 3 minutes EEGs were analyzed by off-line with Fast Fourier Transform from the bilateral frontal (F3, F4), parietal (P3, P4) and occipital (O1, O2) regions. The mean values of absolute amplitude power (microV) and the mean Z scores of inter-, and intrahemispheric coherence were obtained in theta 1 (4.0-6.0 Hz), theta 2 (6.0-8.0 Hz), alpha 1 (8.0-10.5 Hz), alpha 2 (10.5-13.0 Hz), beta 1 (13.0-20.0 Hz), and beta 2 (20.0-40.0 Hz) frequency bands respectively. The main findings were: 1) Beta 1 and beta 2 power were greater in patients with anxiety type depression than in normal controls, and the differences were statistically significant over the parietal and occipital regions in beta 1 and the frontal region in beta 2. The anxiety type was distinguished from the retardation type with the increase of beta 2 power. The retardation type showed higher alpha 1 power over the frontal region and lower alpha 2 power over the occipital region than normal controls. 2) Both types showed greater frontal predominant ratio to the parietal in beta 2 power than did normal controls. The retardation type was distinguished from the anxiety type with the right predominance in beta 1 power over the frontal region. 3) Both groups of patients showed lower frontal interhemispheric coherences than normal controls in each band. In particular, the anxiety type showed significantly lower alpha 2 band and lower beta 1 and beta 2 bands. The parietal interhemispheric coherence was lower in the anxiety type but higher in the retardation type than in normal controls in each band, and this difference was prominent in theta 2 band. 4) The two groups of patients showed higher fronto-parietal intrahemispheric coherences in both hemispheres than the normal controls in each band. Especially, the anxiety type showed higher in theta two and alpha 1 bands.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Do men with thrombangiitis obliterans (TO) show conspicuous personality features and behavior? Twenty-one men with TO were compared with 20 men with coronary artery disease (CAD). All diagnoses were angiographically confirmed. Mean ages were 40.1 (TO) and 43.4 years (CAD). Semistructured, open-ended interviews were conducted. Interview-behavior: TOs were more hostile, minimizing, evasive, and complicated than CADs (p < .001). The interviewer reacted with more anger, impatience, boredom, astonishment, and less empathy towards TOs (p < .001). Adult behavior: TOs had changed their place of work more often (p < .001), had more absentism from work (p < .001), and had more debts (p = .01) unrelated to the present illness. They smoked more before the illness (p = .01) and continued to smoke more frequently during their illness than CADs (p < .003). They were more often single or divorced (p < .05) and had more conflicts in their relationships (p < .001) than CADs. During conflicts, TOs more often shouted or withdrew and less frequently tried to resolve conflicts with humor and discussions (p < .001) than CADs. TOs were more frequently dissatisfied with their life situation than CADs (p < .001). TOs more often passively submitted to their illness than CADs, who tried to cope by giving up smoking and by exercising (p < .001). Childhood: TOs more often mentioned a bad relationship with their father than CADS (p = .01) and had more disciplinary problems at home and in school (p = .002). TOs show remarkable personality features.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study investigates 77 families i.e. their children, aged 7-17, and their parents, who attended the out-patient clinic of the child psychiatric department for the first time. It was intended to examine and outline the subjective situation on entering the clinic. A structured verbal interview was conducted with the children before the start of the actual examination procedure, while a written questionnaire was submitted to the parents. Among the questioned items were modes of referral, references, sources of information, knowledge and preparedness, ideas, expectations and apprehensions about the institution and its treatments. The answer that were obtained reflected a lack of self-determination on the part of the children and the strength of influence exerted by the parents along with other relevant authorities. The children were often taken to the clinic without any active consent on their part. When asked about hopes of improvement they did not often confirm. Similarly fears about the impending examination were at first denied by most children but subsequently conceded, when concrete suggestions were made. Strikingly the better informed and prepared, children were able to admit to their fears more often. The results of the parental questionnaire illustrate an extensive lack of information about the institution that the families were actually attending. It may be concluded that the parents had also been little assertive when preparing their children for the examination. When asked about their expectations the parents primarily quoted "help" and "advice". Scepticism about the examination came only at the bottom of the list.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Tianeptine is a novel antidepressant agent, both structurally (modified tricyclic) and in terms of its pharmacodynamic profile. Unlike other antidepressant agents, tianeptine stimulates the uptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) in rat brain synaptosomes and rat and human platelets, increases 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels in cerebral tissue and plasma, and reduces serotonergic-induced behaviour. Tianeptine reduces the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal response to stress, antagonises stress-induced behavioural deficits and prevents changes in cerebral morphology. The antidepressant efficacy of tianeptine, as shown in 2 trials of patients with major depression or depressed bipolar disorder with or without melancholia, is greater than that of placebo. In patients with major depression without melancholia or psychotic features, depressed bipolar disorder or dysthymic disorder, the antidepressant efficacy of short term (4 weeks to 3 months) tianeptine therapy appears to be similar to that of amitriptyline, imipramine and fluoxetine and may be superior to that of maprotiline in patients with coexisting depression and anxiety. However, submaximal dosages of amitriptyline and maprotiline were used in these studies. Preliminary evidence suggests that tianeptine may also be effective in patients with endogenous depression. Progressive therapeutic improvements have been observed with up to 1 year of tianeptine treatment, and long term therapy may reduce the rate of relapse or recurrence. Tianeptine is effective in the treatment of depression in elderly and post-alcohol-withdrawal patient subgroups. Tianeptine was more effective in reducing psychic anxiety than placebo in patients with major depression or depressed bipolar disorder with or without melancholia. The overall anxiolytic properties of tianeptine in patients with coexisting depression and anxiety appear to be similar to those of amitriptyline, imipramine and fluoxetine and may be superior to those of maprotiline, although submaximal dosages of amitriptyline and maprotiline were used. Studies of tianeptine in patients with primary anxiety have not been conducted. Tianeptine is well tolerated in the short (3 months) and long (up to 1 year) term. The incidence of dry mouth (38 vs 20%), constipation (19 vs 15%), dizziness/syncope (23 vs 13%), drowsiness (17 vs 10%) and postural hypotension (8 vs 3%) are greater with amitriptyline than with tianeptine. Insomnia and nightmares occur in more tianeptine than amitriptyline recipients (20 vs 7%). The relative lack of sedative, anticholinergic and cardiovascular adverse effects with tianeptine makes it particularly suitable for use in the elderly and in patients following alcohol withdrawal; these patients are known to have increased sensitivity to the adverse effects associated with psychotropic drugs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Exposure thresholds for health effects associated with elemental mercury (Hg degree) exposure were examined by comparing behavioral test scores of 19 exposed (mean urinary Hg = 36 micrograms/l) with those of 20 unexposed dentists. Thirty-six micrograms Hg/l is 7 times greater than the 5 micrograms Hg/l mean level measured in a national sample of dentists. To improve the distinction between recent and cumulative effects, the study also evaluated porphyrin concentrations in urine, which are correlated with renal Hg content (a measure of cumulative body burden). Subjects provided an on-site spot urine sample, were administered a 1-h assessment consisting of a consent form, the Profile of Mood Scales, a symptom and medical questionnaire, and 6 behavioral tests: digit-span, symbol-digit substitution, simple reaction time, the ability to switch between tasks, vocabulary, and the One Hole Test. Multivariate regression techniques were used to evaluate dose-effects controlling for the effects of age, race, gender and alcohol consumption. A dose-effect was considered statistically significant below a p value of 0.05. Significant urinary Hg dose-effects were found for poor mental concentration, emotional lability, somatosensory irritation, and mood scores. Individual tests evaluating cognitive and motor function changed in the expected directions but were not significantly associated with urinary Hg. However, the pooled sum of rank scores for combinations of tests within domains were significantly associated with urinary Hg, providing evidence of subtle preclinical changes in behavior associated with Hg exposure. Coproporphyrin, one of three urinary porphyrins altered by mercury exposure, was significantly associated with deficits in digit span and simple reaction time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There is inadequate data about the association between specific psychosocial factors and pediatric health care use. We hypothesized that maternal substance abuse, depression, and low social support would be associated with increased medical visits, emergency room (ER) use, visits for injuries and delays in immunization. We conducted a prospective study of 202 U.S. families with preschool children in a clinic serving the inner city poor. Psychosocial factors were assessed from standardized screening questionnaires for substance abuse, depression and low social support. Research assistants blind to the study hypothesis reviewed medical records for health care over the year following completion of the questionnaire: number of clinic visits, use of emergency room, visits to the ER or clinic for injuries, and delays in immunizations of two months or more. Among the 202 mothers, the mean age was 24.4 years, 47% were African American, 32% Caucasian, and 14% Asian; 55% were high school graduates. The average household income was $7620 per year; the mean age of children was 12.2 months. Thirty-seven percent of mothers screened positively for substance abuse, 34% for depression, and 60% for low social support. Children had an average of 8.6 clinic visits per year; 41% had an ER visit, 21% had an injury resulting in an ER or clinic visit, and 43% of children under 2 years of age had a delay of 2 months or more in recommended immunizations. After controlling for maternal and child age in a regression equation, none of the psychosocial factors were significant predictors of health care use outcomes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

These are the results of two surveys of relatives, and others who knew people who had died, describing events in the year before death and their views on the time of the person's death. Those surveyed were identified from death certificates in England. The main focus is on a sample of 3696 people dying in 1990 in 20 health authorities, with supporting analysis from an earlier national sample of 639 people dying in 1987. Variation in peoples' views about whether an earlier death would have been better is reported, in the context of debate about euthanasia. Spouses were less likely than others to feel that it would have been better if the person had died earlier, and this held true even when controlling for the deceaseds' levels of pain, distress, dependency and age. Spouses were more likely than others to say that a later death would have been better, though not in cases where the deceased was reported as having said they wanted to die sooner. Spouses were influenced by the loss which the death of the person represented for them, being more likely than others to say they missed the person who died a great deal, and feel loneliness was a big problem. Non spouses (children and other relatives of the deceased, friends, neighbours and a few officials) on the other hand were more likely than spouses to say an earlier death would have been better, even when levels of pain, distress, dependency and age were controlled for.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The objectives of this study were to find out women's health concerns for the community and for themselves as they age and whether the promotion of hormone replacement therapy for prevention is important to them. A postal questionnaire was sent to 1649 women aged 20-69 years. The sample was random but stratified for age and taken from the lists of eight general practices in the town of Stockton-on-Tees in north east England. The questionnaire included questions on priorities for health care, fears for personal health with ageing, knowledge about osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and hormone replacement therapy. A 74.3% response rate was achieved. Cancer was named as deserving highest priority for health care in Britain today by 40.7% of respondents. The promotion of long term hormone replacement therapy was given a relatively low priority. The health problem women named as the one they most fear will affect them as they age was, for 30.2% of women, cancer; for 18.8% of women, dementia; for 11.6% of women, arthritis; for 8.8% of women, heart disease. The role of oestrogen in preventing osteoporosis was known by 74.9% of respondents and its role in prevention of cardiovascular disease by 6.6%. Lack of exercise as a risk factor for osteoporosis was known by 29.0% and as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease by 84.6%. Arthritis-like pain was thought to be a warning sign of osteoporosis by by 55.8% of respondents. The promotion of hormone replacement therapy for prevention does not appear to be a high priority for women.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Previous studies in our laboratory have demonstrated the ability of monoaminergic transplants in the rat frontal cortex to produce antidepressive activity in both the learned helplessness model and the forced swimming test, as well as to increase monoamine levels in the implanted frontal cortex. These findings implicate increased cortical levels of norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT) in the antidepressive activity of monoaminergic transplants. The goal of the present study was to characterize the pharmacologic mechanisms involved in the monoaminergic graft-induced antidepressive activity. Immobility scores in the forced swimming test (FST) were assessed after transplantation of 5-HT-containing pineal gland tissue, NE-containing adrenal medullary tissue, a combination of both tissues, or sciatic nerve (control) into the rat frontal cortex and compared to non-transplanted and chronic imipramine-treated rats. Monoaminergic transplants and imipramine treatment significantly reduced immobility scores in the FST in contrast to control transplanted or untreated animals. All groups were assessed pharmacologically with the adrenergic antagonists phentolamine (alpha) and propranolol (beta), and serotonergic antagonists metergoline (5-HT1/5-HT2) and pirenperone (5-HT2). Serotonergic antagonists, particularly the 5HT2 antagonist, blocked the reduction in FST immobility induced by the pineal implants. Adrenergic antagonists not only blocked FST immobility reductions in adrenal medullary grafted animals, but over-compensated for the adrenal transplants, producing a large increase in immobility. The FST reduction induced by pineal and adrenal cografts was blocked by all four monoaminergic antagonists. FST immobility scores in control transplanted and non-transplanted animals were not altered by any of the antagonists. The immobility reduction produced by chronic imipramine treatment was blocked significantly only by propranolol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Assessments of anterior cingulate cortex in experimental animals and humans have led to unifying theories of its structural organization and contributions to mammalian behaviour. The anterior cingulate cortex forms a large region around the rostrum of the corpus callosum that is termed the anterior executive region. This region has numerous projections into motor systems, however, since these projections originate from different parts of anterior cingulate cortex and because functional studies have shown that it does not have a uniform contribution to brain functions, the anterior executive region is further subdivided into 'affect' and 'cognition' components. The affect division includes areas 25, 33 and rostral area 24, and has extensive connections with the amygdala and periaqueductal grey, and parts of it project to autonomic brainstem motor nuclei. In addition to regulating autonomic and endocrine functions, it is involved in conditioned emotional learning, vocalizations associated with expressing internal states, assessments of motivational content and assigning emotional valence to internal and external stimuli, and maternal-infant interactions. The cognition division includes caudal areas 24' and 32', the cingulate motor areas in the cingulate sulcus and nociceptive cortex. The cingulate motor areas project to the spinal cord and red nucleus and have premotor functions, while the nociceptive area is engaged in both response selection and cognitively demanding information processing. The cingulate epilepsy syndrome provides important support of experimental animal and human functional imaging studies for the role of anterior cingulate cortex in movement, affect and social behaviours. Excessive cingulate activity in cases with seizures confirmed in anterior cingulate cortex with subdural electrode recordings, can impair consciousness, alter affective state and expression, and influence skeletomotor and autonomic activity. Interictally, patients with anterior cingulate cortex epilepsy often display psychopathic or sociopathic behaviours. In other clinical examples of elevated anterior cingulate cortex activity it may contribute to tics, obsessive-compulsive behaviours, and aberrent social behaviour. Conversely, reduced cingulate activity following infarcts or surgery can contribute to behavioural disorders including akinetic mutism, diminished self-awareness and depression, motor neglect and impaired motor initiation, reduced responses to pain, and aberrent social behaviour. The role of anterior cingulate cortex in pain responsiveness is suggested by cingulumotomy results and functional imaging studies during noxious somatic stimulation. The affect division of anterior cingulate cortex modulates autonomic activity and internal emotional responses, while the cognition division is engaged in response selection associated with skeletomotor activity and responses to noxious stimuli. Overall, anterior cingulate cortex appears to play a crucial role in initiation, motivation, and goal-directed behaviours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Previous studies have shown that performance during sleep loss is improved by prophylactic naps as a function of varying nap length. Based on single-dose caffeine studies, a similar dose-response effect has been hypothesized on performance, alertness and mood during sleep loss. The present study compared the effects of repeated versus single-dose administration of caffeine and varying amounts of sleep taken prior to sleep loss on performance, mood and physiological measures during 2 nights and days of sleep loss. A total of 140 normal, young adult males participated at one of two study sites. Ninety-eight subjects at one site were randomly assigned to one of four nap conditions (0, 2, 4 or 8 hours) and 42 subjects at the second site were assigned to one of four caffeine conditions. After a normal baseline night of sleep and morning baseline tests of performance, mood and nap latency, subjects in the nap groups returned to bed at noon, 1600 hours, 1800 hours or not at all. Bedtimes were varied so that all naps ended at 2000 hours. Subjects in the caffeine groups received either a single 400-mg dose of caffeine at 0130 hours each night or repeated doses of 150 or 300 mg every 6 hours starting at 0130 hours on the 1st night of sleep loss. A placebo control group (no nap and placebo administered every 6 hours on the repeated caffeine schedule) was run at both sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Children, 4-6 years old, 153 Caucasian and 50 African-American, from a pre-school and kindergarten programme in a low income industrial area, who participated in a voluntary oral health examination, were questioned and examined for signs and symptoms of craniomandibular disorders (CMD) and of oral parafunctions. Most of the CMD signs and symptoms were mild. Eight per cent had recurrent (at least 1-2 times per week) TMJ pain, and 5% had recurrent neck pain, African-American children more often than Caucasian children (P < 0.05). Seventeen per cent had recurrent headache. Three per cent had recurrent earache. Pain or tiredness in the jaws during chewing was reported by 25% of the children, more often by African-American than by Caucasian children (P < 0.001) and more often by girls than by boys (P < 0.05). Pain at jaw opening occurred in 10% of the children, more often in the African-American than in the Caucasian group (P < 0.001). Thirteen per cent of the children had problems in opening the mouth. Deviation during opening was observed in 17% and reduced opening in 2%. Reduced lateral movements, locking or luxation were not observed in any child. Palpation pain was found in the lateral TMJ area in 16%, in the posterior TMJ area in 25%, in the temporalis and masseter areas in 10%, and pain for all regions was found more often in the African-American than in the Caucasian children (P < 0.01). Thirty-four per cent of the African-American, and 15% of the Caucasian children admitted to having ear noises (P < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The objective of the study was to determine user acceptability among women who were classified as false positives or test negatives in an alpha-fetoprotein screening programme. The study was performed as a questionnaire study over a one-year period from October 1, 1988 to September 30, 1989 at Hvidovre University Hospital, Copenhagen, and the county hospitals of Sønderjylland, Denmark. The participating subjects were 4104 pregnant women who had had an alpha-fetoprotein test and had completed 30 weeks of gestation, when the questionnaire was delivered. Main outcome measures were degree and duration of anxiety, influence on daily life and whether the woman wanted the alpha-fetoprotein test again in a new pregnancy. Three thousand, three hundred and thirty-one questionnaires were analyzed. The participation rate was 81.2%. For 219 women (6.6%), the first alpha-fetoprotein test was abnormal (high or low) and the tests were later found to be false positives. There was a strong association between anxiety experienced in conjunction with the alpha-fetoprotein screening programme and the alpha-fetoprotein test result. Two percent of the women with a normal test result reported severe anxiety, compared to 36% of the women who had an abnormal test result followed by amniocentesis (p < 0.001). Two percent of the women with a normal alpha-fetoprotein result reported that they were anxious one month or more after testing, in contrast to 39% of those who had had an amniocentesis (p < 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This description of the concept of hope was developed using interview data from four participant groups: patients undergoing heart transplant, spinal cord-injured patients, breast cancer survivors, and breastfeeding mothers intending to continue nursing while employed. Advanced techniques of concept analysis (using qualitative methods) enabled the delineation of the seven abstract and universal components of hope: a realistic initial assessment of the predicament or threat, the envisioning of alternatives and the setting of goals, a bracing for negative outcomes, a realistic assessment of personal resources and of external conditions and resources, the solicitation of mutually supportive relationships, the continuous evaluation for signs that reinforce the selected goals, and a determination to endure. Comparison of the various manifestations of these components in the four participant groups revealed unique and distinct patterns of hope. These were labeled: hoping for a chance, incremental hope, hoping against hope, and provisional hope. The implications for nursing practice are discussed.

We started this chapter by examining a simple psychological model that depression was a straightforward reaction to the severity of the physical impairment of Parkinson's disease, and that the relationship between the two factors was essentially linear. Because of the progressive nature of the disease, it followed that any such relationship would also be reflected in factors such as stage of illness and duration. As seen, however, the data have consistently failed to support such a simple reactive model. Examining the equivalent literature on other physical disorders revealed a remarkably similar picture suggesting that the model is largely inadequate in general, as well as in relation to Parkinson's disease. This inadequacy, however, should not be taken as evidence that psychological factors are unimportant. Rather, it suggests only that we need a more comprehensive model linking chronic disabling illness and depression. One revision suggested by the evidence was to consider nonlinear relationships, for example, between depression and stage of illness. Adopting a broader perspective, one may suppose that the risk of depression may change over the course of disease progression. For example, at the very beginning, diagnosis and the process of coming to terms with the fact of having a progressive and disabling illness may be sufficient to cause depression. Later in the course of the illness, progressive deterioration and increasing dependency may once again provoke depression. At any stage, a rapid deterioration (from whatever level) or the development or worsening of treatment complications may cause fresh concerns and require a fresh period of adjustment. Although the depression may be similar in each of these cases, the mediating psychological factor is different. In between these times, the individual may adapt to the illness and its consequences and show less vulnerability to depression. A further modification of the model is to consider the influence of multiple factors. While any one factor may individually predict depression only weakly, in combination, they may explain the observed pattern of depression more accurately. Although little evidence is available, there is the suggestion that a combination of physical and psychological factors may provide a clearer picture of depression severity. The final, major modification suggested is to view the broad consequences of the physical disease, rather than the severity of the symptoms themselves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

When viewed as a whole, these basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuits appear to play a modulating role in a wide range of behaviors. At the cortical level, given convergence upon specified regions within the frontal lobes, the behaviors in question would be those dependent upon SMA, premotor, frontal eye fields, dorsolateral, and orbitofrontal outflow targets. Broadly speaking, processes such as the generation, maintenance, switching, and blending of motor, mental, or emotional sets would be involved. Accordingly, in basal ganglia disease, the planning and the execution of the above behavioral domains can be affected. Given the diversity and complexity of activity within the basal ganglia, the consequences of disruption depend largely upon lesion site and the associated interplay of neurochemical factors. For example, in the motor domain, damage to various striatal circuitry levels can result in either hypo- or hyperkinetic disorders of movement. Following this analogy, it might also be said that diverse lesions, depending on site, can result in problems with the development and maintenance of behavioral sets ("hypophrenic") versus problems in relinquishing preferential sets ("hyperphrenic"). These contrasting patterns are best represented in PD and OCD, respectively. In the latter case, however, the "hyperphrenic" pattern would only apply to those behaviors which are part of the obsessional rituals. This suggests that procedural system "overdrive" remains domain-specific as is the case for most operations within the procedural system. To return to the broad principle of habituation, a process first described in the context of the visual system and its connections with the tail of the caudate nucleus, it would be tempting to view PD and OCD as disorders of "under" and "over" habituation to behavioral routines. Unfortunately, the situation has proven to be more complex in view of recent neuropsychological findings (Nicholson et al., in preparation). Using a variety of problem-solving and other cognitive tasks, both PD and OCD patients were found to require more practice and/or the provision of external guidelines to facilitate habit formation. Thus, in both cases, as in other disorders of the basal ganglia, the establishment of useful heuristics by which to direct adaptive behavior suffers. OCD patients therefore appear to have at least two compartmentalized types of basal ganglia dysfunction: the ritualistic compulsions and obsessions as well as the heuristic inefficiency (i.e., poor procedural mobilization). PD patients would also suffer a similar fate as it is known that the degrees of motor versus nonmotor (i.e., procedural) deficit are poorly correlated (42).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The concept of assessing health-related quality of life has a brief and vibrant history. In this monograph, theoretical issues related to the term and the reasons assessment of quality of life is important are discussed. There is a great deal of ambiguity surrounding definitions of the concept. This equivocation is caused in part by the fact that thinking on both the concept of health-related quality-of-life assessment and the way in which it should be measured are still evolving. Methodologic concerns regarding the assessment of health-related quality of life are discussed, including ways in which the validity and reliability of measurement approaches are established. These characteristics are important because they are necessary to ensure that accurate information is obtained with whatever instrument or procedure is used. Many significant issues relate to the use of quality-of-life assessment, and these are delineated. Consideration and resolution of these issues are prerequisites to the introduction of a given assessment instrument or procedure into a study. A large section of this article is devoted to a review of selected measures of health-related quality of life. Three types of measures are discussed. The first type is referred to as general. These measures are designed to be used across different diseases, different treatments or interventions, and different groups of patients. The reliability and validity of general instruments or procedures, plus their history of empirical use, make them invaluable methods of measurement. The second type of measures is referred to as disease specific. These measures are designed to assess specific diagnostic or patient populations with the goal of detecting responsiveness or clinically significant changes. The ability to assess such changes in a particular patient population has led to major growth in the development and introduction of these instruments in the past few years. The final type of measure consists of batteries of separate instruments that are scored independently. The advantage of using this approach is that the battery can be put together to assess whatever aspects of health-related quality of life need to be measured. Examples of quality-of-life assessment in medical research include a discussion of how various procedures are used to measure the construct with asthma, chronic respiratory disorders, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease. All three types of assessment--general, disease specific, and batteries of measures--have been used in this respect. Newer methods of assessment, particularly disease-specific instruments and procedures, are also described.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A single dose of DGAVP (2 mg) and a chronic treatment of 2 weeks (1 mg/day) were given to male and female volunteers by the intranasal route. Memory, mood, vigilance, and attention were tested starting 60 min after treatment. Initial storage of abstract words was improved in the males but not in the females after chronic treatment with DGAVP. This effect persisted after discontinuation of treatment. Initial storage and learning of concrete words were not affected by treatment with DGAVP. Chronic, but not acute, treatment with DGAVP reduced the reaction time for scanning of digits in a memory comparison task (Sternberg paradigm) in both sexes. No treatment effects were found for visual memory, vigilance, attention, mood, or blood pressure. The present study indicates a sexual dimorphism in the effect of DGAVP on certain memory processes.

Psychiatric symptoms are heterogeneous and differ in origin, structure and clinical expression. These differences are frequently ignored both clinically and in research. Thus, patients may be described as being anxious or as having delusions, with little realisation that different aspects of the structure of symptoms are being depicted. Neglect of differences in structure between symptoms has also naturally resulted in the neglect of differences in structure between superficially 'same' symptoms. A model is offered here which provides a means of classifying heterogeneity on the basis of five levels of clinical differentiation which, in turn, carries implications for underlying symptom structure. At the 1st level, symptoms can be differentiated in terms of the conventional category 'form' but which is in fact a composite of criteria. At the 2nd level, symptoms may be separated by differences in diagnosis which may alter structure; it is suggested that one way of capturing these is to assess the qualitative dimensions of the form. At the 3rd level, differentiation can occur on the basis of sensory modality, and, using hallucinations as an illustration, it has been shown that this is a weak and confused criterion. At the 4th level, symptoms can be differentiated on the basis of abstract criteria, often of historical origin, for which there is little empirical evidence. At the 5th level, the main criterion is difference in content. That not all symptoms will be susceptible to a fivefold analysis reinforces the argument that symptoms are structurally different and that these differences have psychometric and research implications.

The psychological aspects (personal traits, way of relating to the surrounding environment, perception of body image, degree of self-esteem) of eight adults with childhood onset growth hormone (GH) deficiency (GHD) were studied before and after 6 months of recombinant GH therapy. Each subject was evaluated using the following tests: the Bem Sex Role test, the non-verbal scales of the WAIS test for adults, the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, the Experiential-World Inventory, the Image-Marking Method and the Draw-a-Person test; a psychoneurophysiological profile was also evaluated in order to monitor, by means of four neurophysiological variables (muscular tension, galvanic resistance, skin temperature and heart rate), the reactions to specific and aspecific stress. Before treatment, adults with GHD tended to underestimate their body size by an average of 30%, with peaks of 47% for the head area; furthermore, they showed a low level of self-esteem, a closed attitude towards social relationships, a pessimistic attitude with a tendency towards depression and a strong sense of detachment from the outside world. After 6 months of GH treatment, patients presented an overall improvement in relation to intellectual tasks, accompanied by a lower level of stress during their performance. A clear improvement was also observed in terms of emotional control during specific and aspecific stress, which might contribute a positive effect on their interrelationships. As expected, the treatment was not able to reduce the subjects' highly distorted perception of body image, due to the fact that GH treatment, despite a clear amelioration of lean/fat body mass ratio, did not change their body proportions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The suggestion is made that emotions organized on a preconceptual level are psychic constructs different in kind, as well as degree, from emotions organized on a more abstract conceptual level. For many people the regressive alteration in ego functioning that gives rise to these emotional constructions represents a characterological way of handling conflict. Emotions organized on a preconceptual level and rigidly maintained through primitive defenses ward off a host of fears ranging from castration to dedifferentiation. The shift from the preconceptual world of sensation to the conceptual world of abstraction complements the resolution of oedipal themes and is essential for free and easy movement between reality-based interactions and the imaginary experience of both self- and object representations in the transference. Structural and dynamic aspects of these emotional constructions are discussed and their relation to a person's experience of reality is explored through transference material taken from different points in an analysis. The problem of the analyst's use of concepts to refer to preconcepts is also discussed, as is the issue of enactments.

The major part of the delay from onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction to arrival in hospital is caused by patients' delayed reporting. Therefore, a media campaign was initiated by the Swiss Heart Foundation with the goal of informing people about the seriousness of chest pain and about the importance of proper action in these situations. An initial 2 months' national campaign was followed by a 3 weeks' intensive local campaign in a mixed urban/suburban area in central Switzerland. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of this media campaign on patients information and reaction in case of cardiac emergency, and to study the possible impact of this campaign on anxiety levels and other emotions. Telephone interviews were performed before and after both the national and the local campaign using a cohort of 500 persons in a longitudinal and 4 x 500 persons in a cross-sectional study. The information had reached about 50% of the population by the end of the local campaign. The percentage of persons who would call the emergency medical services immediately in case of chest pain increased from 40% to 57% in the cross-sectional and from 48% to 65% in the longitudinal study (p < 0.001), and the percentage of persons who would call the ambulance team immediately on witnessing a person with a heart attack increased from 25 to 92% in the cross-sectional and to 96% in the longitudinal study (p < 0.001). Anxiety levels and other negative emotions decreased slightly during the campaign (p < 0.05), whereas feelings of personal safety revealed a slight increase (p < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Defeat and the threat of defeat by an aggressive conspecific is stressful and may engender an anxiety- or fear-like state in animals; the present experiment investigated whether defeat generalized to the discriminative stimulus properties of PTZ and how benzodiazepine receptors were involved in this generalization. Separate groups of male Long-Evans rats (Rattus norvegicus) were trained to discriminate 20 mg/kg pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) or 0.4 mg/kg midazolam (MDZ) from saline in a two-choice drug-discrimination task. After establishing stimulus control, PTZ- and MDZ-trained rats were exposed to an aggressive conspecific which resulted in defeat, as defined by the display of defensive and submissive postures as well as audible and ultrasonic vocalizations. Administration of saline after defeat resulted in greater than 80% PTZ lever selection in 15 out of 25 PTZ-trained rats; this effect was attenuated through pretreatment with MDZ (1 mg/kg). Furthermore, short-term defeat substitution for the PTZ discriminative stimulus was not accompanied by long-term changes in the post-defeat generalization curves for PTZ and MDZ when compared to pre-defeat generalization curves. Nor did defeat alter the antagonism of PTZ by diazepam (2.5 mg/kg) or MDZ by flumazenil (10 mg/kg). In order further to characterize the necessary features for defeat substitution for the PTZ discriminative stimulus, exposure to a threatening conspecific was also attempted by PTZ-trained rats protected from physical contact with a wire mesh cage. In these tests, saline continued to engender greater than 50% PTZ lever responding in 15 of 25 rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Sufficient evidence now exists to support the contention that estrogen influences cognitive functioning in women. Moreover, the data strongly suggest that estrogen exerts a specific and not a global effect on cognitive functions. Whereas estrogen enhances and/or maintains aspects of verbal memory, it is without effect, or possibly even has a negative influence on spatial memory. Indeed, there is some preliminary evidence that progesterone may enhance visual-spatial skills in women but this needs to be confirmed. Estrogen also exerts a positive effect on sexually dimorphic cognitive skills in which females typically excel such as verbal articulation and fine motor skills. While the weight of the evidence supports the above conclusion, findings across studies are not entirely consistent. Some of the methodological problems that weaken these studies include generalizing from one or two cognitive tasks to the entire realm of cognitive functions, neglecting to assay plasma levels of estradiol to confirm cycle phase or compliance with hormone administration and neglecting to consider the differential availability to the brain of the various estrogen preparations and the effects of different routes of administration. Although, for the most part, the menstrual cycle studies and the postmenopausal studies in healthy women show that estrogen maintains verbal memory, the effect size is modest. There is no reason to believe, for example, that verbal memory is truly impaired in women during phases of the menstrual cycle marked by low levels of estrogen. Nor are 45-year-old untreated, surgically menopausal women clinically impaired to any degree that affects their daily functioning in the real world. In both cases, however, decrements in performance occur reliably in the laboratory. This raises the issue, therefore, of the clinical meaningfulness of these findings. One way to address the clinical relevance of the relationship between estrogen and memory and thus, on cognitive functioning of the brain, is to examine what is known of estrogenic effects on other physiological systems where we already have substantial information. For example, the vast majority of women experience bone loss following the menopause and many develop osteopenia (bone density more than two standard deviations below mean peak bone mass levels) which is asymptomatic. Then, with advancing age, some women with osteopenia develop osteoporosis, predisposing them to fractures following minimal trauma. It has been estimated that 40 per cent of women who live to age 80 will develop spinal fractures and 33 per cent of women who live to age 90 will experience a hip fracture.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Fentanyl is commonly administered to conscious patients by continuous epidural or intravenous (i.v.) infusions, or by the transdermal route, which result in relatively constant, low, concentrations of the drug. Previous studies of memory and cognitive effects have not been performed at constant plasma concentrations of fentanyl. Based on simulated infusions using the pharmacokinetic modeling program IV-SIM, we administered fentanyl or placebo to nine healthy volunteers (aged 21-45 yr) by continuous i.v. infusion, targeting plasma concentrations of 1, 1.5, and 2.5 ng/mL in succession. A battery of memory and psychomotor tasks was administered at each plasma concentration of fentanyl, and at two points in the recovery phase while drug levels were decreasing. At increasing plasma concentrations of fentanyl, we found the following effects on memory (in comparison with placebo): a progressive decline in verbal learning (P < 0.03); decreased delayed recognition of words presented at different test times (P < 0.02); and decreased spontaneous recall of pictures shown during infusion (P < 0.03). Fentanyl at concentrations above 2.5 ng/mL caused a performance decrement of 15%-30% relative to baseline on all the psychomotor tests administered. Plasma concentrations less than 2.25 ng/mL had negligible effects on performance with the exception of the critical flicker fusion frequency, which decreased by 5 Hz at plasma concentrations between 1.5 and 2.25 ng/mL. Visual analog scale (VAS) measures of mental and physical sedation were significantly affected by fentanyl, but euphoria was not demonstrable. All subjects receiving fentanyl experienced severe nausea and four of six had one or more episodes of emesis (P < 0.03).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study investigated physiological and pharmacological characteristics of socially "stressed" animals. Specifically, we examined (1) to what degree autonomic and behavioral "stress" reactions during intermittent confrontations between an intruder male adult Long-Evans rat with an aggressive resident undergo habituation, and (2) to what extent the defeat-experienced animal can be protected against these "stress" reactions with clonidine or metoprolol, two adrenergic agents with clinical anxiolytic effects. We developed an acute social stress situation that consisted of initially placing an experimental rat as an intruder into the homecage of a resident while the resident was not present, thereafter permitting brief physical agonistic interactions with the reintroduced resident until the intruder was forced into a submissive supine posture and emitted ultrasonic vocalizations (USV), and eventually exposing the intruder to the resident's threats for one hour, while being shielded from potentially injurious attacks ("threat encounter"). Over the course of the initial 4-weekly threat encounters the acute tachycardia but not the hyperthermic stress responses decreased in magnitude. Following the first three threat encounters core temperature (Tc) was significantly elevated for at least 3 h. The Tc was already elevated when the repeatedly defeated intruder was confronted with the olfactory cues of the resident's cage. This conditioned "anticipatory" hyperthermia developed in the course of the first three confrontations and was paralleled by a decrease in exploratory and motor behavior and by an increase in defensive behaviors and in both types of USV emitted in the "low" (20-30 kHz) and the "high" (31-70 kHz) frequency range. Clonidine (0.01-0.1 mg/kg, IP), an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist and metoprolol, a beta-adrenergic blocker (1.0-10.0 mg/kg, IP), dose-dependently prevented the tachycardic response to stress. Only clonidine, but not metoprolol, also attenuated the rise in Tc during the 1-h agonistic interaction. Clonidine decreased those aspects of motor behavior (e.g. rearing, walking) that are of lesser "cost" for the individual but maintained high levels of defensive reactions and increased the duration of "low" USV. The high doses of clonidine (0.06, 0.1 mg/kg) attenuated the homeostatic regulation and sedated the intruder while exposed to threats during a social confrontation. The absence of attenuation of the high level of defensive behavior and the prolonged "low" USV suggest a stress intensification by the higher doses of clonidine. In conclusion, after the fourth encounter, the autonomic, behavioral and vocal response pattern prior to and during repeated weekly confrontations show no evidence for habituation for the following 6 weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) is a 100-item true-false self-questionnaire proposed by R. Cloninger and based on a three independent dimensions model of personality. These three dimensions, each with four sub-scales, are Novelty Seeking (NS), Harm Avoidance (HA) and Reward Dependence (RD). Recently, several groups have used the TPQ to study clinical samples, and other have reported normative data in the general population but, up to date, no result has been published on the French TPQ version. The aims of this study were therefore to assess the psychometric properties of this questionnaire and also to research an eventual relationship between dimensions of personality and anxiety and depression mood, measured by mood and anxiety scales in out-patients. A population of 165 subjects was included in this study and assessed with the TPQ. In this sample, 119 patients completed also the Hospital Anxiety and Depression (HAD) scale. The factor analysis with a Varimax rotation suggests three possible solutions with 3, 4 or 5 factors for the TPQ. These all three analysis indicate that the dimensions NS and HA load consistently unto the first two factors, and seem therefore two robust and independent dimensions. Contrastly, the RD dimension seems definitely heterogeneous, even if the RD2 sub-scale (persistence) is treated separately from the other as proposed by Cloninger. Analysis of correlations between TPQ dimensions and HAD sub-score show that only the HA dimension is related to anxiety sub-score (r = 0.34), depression subscore (r = 0.52) and total HAD score (r = 0.47).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization is the well-documented phenomenon where repeated doses of cocaine elicit increasingly greater effects on motoric activity in rats. Some observations suggest that behavioral sensitization may provide a model for understanding the mechanisms of drug-craving elicited by environmental triggers or cues. The process of fully validating such an animal model for its ability to detect effective anticraving medicines is a difficult and long-term undertaking. As a first step in that direction, we decided to determine if cocaine can produce conditioned behavioral sensitization in humans using a paradigm fairly similar to that used for rodents. Because humans do not react to cocaine with the pronounced motor activation observed in rodents, we measured a variety of end points, including blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), respiratory rate, pupil diameter, hormones (prolactin and cortisol), and subjective responses using the questionnaire for drug-related feelings (QDRF) and the EEG. To mimic the home and test cages used in rodent studies, two rooms were used: a small test chamber and a regular room with a window and furnishings. On day 1 each subject received a drug infusion (either saline or 40 mg cocaine IV) in both locations. On day 2, all subjects received an infusion (saline or 25 mg cocaine IV) in the test chamber. All drug infusions were conducted double blind. The paired group received cocaine on both days in the test chamber. The unpaired group received cocaine in regular room on day 1, and cocaine in the test chamber on day 2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In an attempt to analyze different types of anxiety, and at the same time assess memory, a new experimental model was developed. The apparatus, named the elevated T-maze, consisted of three arms of equal dimensions (50 x 10 cm) elevated 50 cm from the ground. One arm, enclosed by 40-cm high walls, was perpendicular to two open arms. The first experimental session was conducted 25 min after IP injection of either drug or saline. To assess inhibitory (passive) avoidance, the rat was placed at the end of the enclosed arm and the time taken to withdraw from this arm was recorded three times in succession. Soon afterwards, the rat was placed at the end of one of the open arms and the time taken to withdraw from this arm was measured, thus estimating one-way escape. To assess memory, inhibitory avoidance and escape were measured again 3 days later, without drug. Dose-response curves were determined for the benzodiazepine anxiolytic and amnestic agent diazepam (DZP, 0.5-4 mg/kg), as well as for ipsapirone (IPS, 0.25-2 mg/kg), an azapirone anxiolytic that is devoid of clinically significant amnestic effects. The doses of 1, 2, and 4 mg/kg DZP and of 1 and 2 mg/kg IPS impaired inhibitory avoidance, an effect that may be viewed as anxiolytic. Inhibitory avoidance remained impaired 3 days later in the rats treated with 1-4 mg/kg DZP, indicating anterograde amnesia. This effect was not due to state-dependent learning, because rats injected both at pretraining and pretesting with 2 mg/kg DZP still showed complete amnesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In our cross-sectional study we investigated the separate influence of three main factors, namely menopausal and estrogen status, and chronological age, on ten neurovegetative climacteric complaints reported in the scale of Kupperman et al. A multivariate statistical analysis was performed by a multivariate statistical approach on 1161 untreated women seen at the Menopause Center of the Ferrara University Hospital. Ninety women (age range, 41-54 years) were premenopausal; 492 women (age range, 38-55 years) were perimenopausal with irregular periods or amenorrhea for less than 12 months; 468 women (age range, 41-69 years) had a spontaneous menopause (age range, 37-66 years); 111 had had hysterectomy with bilateral ovariectomy while still regularly menstruating. Serum estrone was used as the indicator of the patients' estrogen status. A clear positive trend was demonstrated between menopausal status and the prevalence of depression, hot flushes, insomnia and joint pain. However, only the prevalence of hot flushes amongst these four symptoms was significantly related with the climacteric estrogen decline (beta = -0.006, P = 0.001). Moreover, menopausal status appeared to influence the intensity of fatigue, hot flushes, insomnia and paresthesia. Age was found to significantly (P = 0.053) co-vary only with the intensity of the hot flushes, with a positive relation (beta = 0.092, r = 0.104, P = 0.003), whereas estrone values did not significantly co-vary with any symptom. Furthermore, while neurovegetative symptoms are largely present also in the absence of hot flushes, when these latter are present, they exacerbate both the intensity and the prevalence of all the other symptoms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To our knowledge there has been no previous study of factors specifically involved in the pathogenesis of patients who complain of burning sensation of the lips when the lips appear clinically normal. The complaint is akin to patients who complain of a burning sensation of the mouth when it appears clinically normal, a condition known as burning mouth syndrome. This study therefore studied precipitating factors in patients with burning mouth syndrome who reported lip involvement. Previous studies have shown that the lips are the third most common site reported as involved in patients who have burning mouth syndrome. Indeed patients with burning mouth syndrome often report multiple oral site involvement. To investigate the precipitating factors involved in the lip component of burning mouth syndrome, we studied 104 patients who reported the lips as a site affected by the condition from a total population of 312 patients with burning mouth syndrome. Hematologic, biochemical, and microbiologic parameters were studied in these patients. Sialometry, patch testing, psychological testing, and examination of denture status as well as questioning of parafunctional habits were also undertaken. No clear differences were noted in relationship to the frequency of abnormalities in burning mouth syndrome alone or burning mouth syndrome with lip involvement suggesting that similar precipitating factors apply. The precipitating factors in patients with lip involvement were found to be the same as burning mouth syndrome in general. Treatment of patients with lip involvement alone in burning mouth syndrome or lip involvement in burning mouth syndrome in conjunction with other intraoral sites gave an equally good response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Since in patients with Cushing's disease, unlike in normal subjects, tonic inhibitory opioid control of ACTH secretion does not operate, use of the opiate agonist loperamide (LOP) has recently been proposed in the diagnosis of hypercortisolemic states. We compared the sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of the LOP test (16 mg orally) with corresponding results of the dexamethasone test (DXM, 1 mg orally overnight) in 23 normal subjects and in a total of 42 patients, affected by Cushing's disease (n = 8), incidentally discovered adrenal masses with impaired function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis (n = 6), obesity (n = 21) and depression (n = 7). While in controls both DXM and LOP strongly suppressed plasma cortisol and ACTH, in Cushing's disease and in incidentalomas no patient showed a decrease in cortisol levels below 50 ng/ml or a reduction in plasma cortisol greater than 50% of basal values in response to LOP and DXM. In obese subjects both drugs significantly reduced plasma cortisol and ACTH without giving false positive results. In the depressed group only 3/7 patients showed a decrement in cortisol levels below 50 ng/ml after LOP in contrast to 6/7 after DXM. Thus, in patients with impairment of the HPA-axis, i.e. in Cushing's disease and in patients with adrenal incidentalomas and hormonal abnormalities, LOP and DXM test sensitivity was 100%. In controls and in obese patients specificity was 100% both with LOP and DXM, while in depressed patients it was 43% and 86% with LOP and DXM, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There are a number of arguments that purport to show, in general terms, that there is no difference between killing and letting die. These are used to justify active euthanasia on the basis of the reasons given for allowing patients to die. I argue that the general and abstract arguments fail to take account of the complex and particular situations which are found in the care of those with terminal illness. When in such situations, there are perceptions and intuitions available that do not easily find propositional form but lead most of those whose practice is in the care of the dying to resist active euthanasia. I make a plea for their intuitions to be heeded above the sterile voice of abstract premises and arguments by examining the completeness of the outline form of the pro-euthanasia argument. In doing so, I make use of Nussbaum's discussion of moral perception and general claims to be found in the literature of moral particularism.

This study is the first double-blind placebo-controlled trial of fluoxetine for chronic daily headache (CDH) and migraine. After a one month single-blind baseline on placebo, subjects with CDH (n = 64) and migraine (n = 58) were randomly assigned to a three month trial of fluoxetine (20 mg) or an identical placebo. Fluoxetine and placebo were increased to 40 mg in the second month, depending on patient response. Patients kept daily headache records, and completed 100 mm visual analogue scales (VAS) of headache and mood each month. For the group of CDH patients on fluoxetine, overall headache status (VAS) after three months compared to the end of the single-blind placebo baseline improved a mean of 50% vs. 11% for those receiving the double-blind placebo (P = .029), with 47% vs. 23% improving at least 50% (P = .097, n.s.). Fluoxetine patients showed significant improvement in monthly mood ratings compared to placebo (.001 by the end of the study), and modest but significant improvement in daily records of headache frequency (P = .019) but not pain severity. Significant mood improvements preceded improvement in headache, reaching significance by the end of the second month on fluoxetine (P = .013), while headache improvement emerged only during the third month (P = .001). Double-blind investigator judgement identified more headache improvement in fluoxetine than placebo recipients (40% vs. 22%, P = .032).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Sleep disturbances and decrements of daytime performance have been attributed to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. As a rule, lipophilic compounds more readily cross the blood-brain barrier and are more likely to affect central nervous system function. The authors compared the effects of lovastatin (40 mg), a lipophilic compound, to pravastatin (40 mg), a hydrophilic compound, in a 6-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, three-way Latin square design, cross-over study on 22 men with hypercholesterolemia. Patients had LDL cholesterol of more than 165 mg/dL and triglyceride of less than 350 mg/dL after 6 weeks of a low-fat (< 30%), low-cholesterol (< 300 mg/day) diet. Compared with placebo, there were no significant effects of lovastatin or pravastatin on the following subjective and polysomnographic sleep measures: changes in total sleep time, time in each sleep stage, sleep efficiency, sleep latency, REM density, REM activity, and number of arousals. Similarly, there were no effects of the two drugs on measures of cognitive performance. A significant increase in the duration of nocturnal tumescence (NPT) was observed after 2 weeks of treatment with both study drugs. This effect was not significant after 6 weeks of treatment. Both lovastatin and pravastatin caused significant (P < .05 compared with placebo) decreases in total cholesterol (by 20.9 and 20.6%, respectively), LDL cholesterol (by 27.8 and 29.9%), and triglycerides (by 13.6 and 3.7%). Subjects' HDL increased by 2.3% with lovastatin (NS) and by 3.1% with pravastatin (P < .05). Lipoprotein(a) increased by 20.5% with lovastatin and by 1.1% with pravastatin; these changes were not significantly different from placebo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The trial included 24 children (aged 2-7 yr) referred for dental treatment under general anesthesia, since conventional behavioral management methods had failed to achieve treatment acceptance. As an alternative, they received, on two separate occasions with "identical" dental treatment, conscious sedation by rectal administration of either midazolam (0.3 mg/kg body weight (bwt)) or midazolam (0.3 mg/kg bwt) plus ketamine (1.0 mg/kg bwt). This allowed a double-blind, crossover design. The aims were to assess conscious sedation, combined with local anesthesia, as an alternative to general anesthesia, and further to evaluate the effects obtained by addition of a low dose of ketamine to rectally administered midazolam. The feasibility of dental treatment was rated as excellent or good for 16 of the 24 children when premedicated with midazolam, and for 18 of the 24 children when ketamine was added to midazolam. At least some treatment could be given to all children. Verbal contact was maintained with all children throughout both treatment sessions. The children were significantly less anxious when they arrived for the second session. Amnesia and drowsiness were significantly increased when ketamine was added to midazolam. The combination also tended to be more efficient in relief of anxiety and prevention of pain, but there were large variations in the children's responses to the drugs. Midazolam significantly reduced the blood oxygen level, but not with ketamine added. For most children, both regimens proved to be appropriate as alternatives to general anesthesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Four years since the introduction of fluoxetine into Australian clinical practice, and two years since the availability of moclobemide, it is now possible to comment with some degree of certainty about the place of the new antidepressants. There do not appear to be any major complications or adverse effects associated with the recently marked antidepressants. While these medications clearly share their own similar and specific side effects, these problems are less frequent and severe than those experienced with the TCAs. Additionally, it has become obvious that they have fewer cardiac effects and possess a lower toxicity on overdose than the older classes of antidepressants. The differences in adverse effects between the various SSRIs appear to be minimal. Does this mean that the SSRIs, moclobemide and mianserin should be the treatment of first choice for depression? On balance, the evidence presented in this article would suggest rather that the new agents and TCAs should all be considered first-line agents. While discontinuation rates due to adverse effects are clearly less frequent with the new antidepressants, the currently available data do not indicate any difference in drop-out rates when discontinuation due to lack of efficacy is also incorporated into the equation. Irrespective of cost issues, the possible greater effectiveness of the TCAs in melancholic depression must also be taken into account. In conclusion, the advent of the SSRIs, moclobemide and mianserin has clearly been a major advance in the treatment of depression, and is already leading to major shifts in the pattern of antidepressant prescribing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Tension-type headache is the term designated by the International Headache Society to describe what was previously called tension headache, muscle contraction headache, psychomyogenic headache, stress headache, ordinary headache, and psychogenic headache. The International Headache Society defines tension-type headache more precisely, distinguishes between the episodic and the chronic varieties, and divides them into two groups, those associated with a disorder of the pericranial muscles and those not associated with this type of disorder. Most clinic-based studies of tension-type headache suffer from selection bias, as they include patients with more severe headaches, patients with concomitant migraine, and patients with chronic daily headache. Traditionally, episodic tension-type headache and migraine have been considered distinct disorders, and the International Headache Society continues the separation. Some believe that both migraine and tension-type headache are recurring benign headaches. Chronic tension-type headache used to be called chronic daily headache, but they are not identical. Chronic tension-type headache must be distinguished from chronic daily headache even though the International Headache Society has not done this. Chronic daily headache is a syndrome consisting of a group of disorders and can be subclassified into primary and secondary types. The primary chronic daily headache disorders include transformed migraine, chronic tension-type headache, new daily persistent headache, and hemicrania continua. Secondary causes of chronic daily headache include post-traumatic headache, cervical spine disorders, and headache associated with vascular disorders and nonvascular intracranial disorders. Patients with frequent headaches are prone to overuse analgesics, ergotamine, or both. Most patients with chronic daily headache overuse symptomatic medication.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Physically and neurologically handicapped pediatric dental patients are often a challenge to treat and may require the use of pharmacological agents for behavior modification. The purpose of this study was to investigate the safety, in terms of vital sign changes and complications, and the effectiveness, in terms of behavioral changes, of two dosages of oral midazolam as a conscious sedative agent for this unique population. Participating in this study were 31 patients of Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children, who were uncooperative (as rated on the Frankl scale) at a previous dental appointment. The patients, 3-18 years old, were randomly selected to receive one of the two dosage regimens; Group A received 0.3 mg/kg oral midazolam and Group B received 0.5 mg/kg. Physiologic parameters and behavior were recorded throughout the appointment and overall safety and success were determined. Although clinically insignificant, Group A's pulse rates 20 min into treatment were significantly higher than at baseline or treatment start, and oxygen saturations were lower during treatment than at baseline and start of treatment. Intratreatment systolic and diastolic blood pressures and pulse rates of Group B were significantly higher than the baseline figures; however, these changes were not clinically significant. No clinical or postoperative complications were noted for either dosage. The regimen of 0.3 mg/kg of oral midazolam was successful 75% of the time, and the regimen of 0.5 mg/kg of oral midazolam was successful 60% of the time in providing adequate sedation to allow operative treatment to be safely and efficiently performed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Do spinal cord injured patients who accept responsibility for their injury cope better than those who blame others? Previous investigations have yielded conflicting answers to this question. On the assumption that some portion of the disparity in earlier findings derives from the failure of early investigators to conceptualize "blame" as a dynamic phenomenon, the present study approached the question via a longitudinal study. Specifically, we examined: (1) the evolution of patients' perceptions of responsibility for spinal cord injury, and (2) the changing association of this factor with depression over a 2-year period, beginning with inpatient rehabilitation. Eighteen men with traumatic spinal cord injury were evaluated during acute rehabilitation and again at 18 to 24 months following discharge. Patients assigned proportions of blame for their injury to four possible causal factors (self, environment, chance, others). Three indices of depression were derived from the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Eighty-nine percent of the subjects displayed shifts in pattern of blame assignment between initial and follow-up evaluations. Individuals whose self-blame score increased over time exhibited increased depression, as did those who came to attribute to "chance" lesser blame for their injury. During inpatient rehabilitation, no aspect of blame correlated significantly with any of the three BDI indices, although "other blame" and the cognitive/affective BDI index just failed to reach conventional levels (r = .43, p = .07). By contrast, at follow-up evaluation, "self blame" was positively correlated with both the cognitive/affective (r = .51, p = .03) and Total (r = .46, p = .05) BDI scores. All other correlations were not statistically meaningful.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The central effects, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of multiple intravenous doses of the analgesic ketorolac tromethamine (30 mg 4 times daily for 5 days) were studied in male volunteers. In this double-blind, randomized, parallel group study, 13 subjects received ketorolac tromethamine and 7 subjects received placebo (vehicle). To determine the effects of withdrawal all subjects were then given further dosing with placebo (4 times daily) for 2 days while maintaining the double-blind nature of the previous drug assignment. Physical examinations and laboratory tests were obtained prior to the drug administration and after completion of the study. Scales for assessment of anxiety, depression, sleep and opiate withdrawal were presented to the subjects on day 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the study. After 5 days of multiple intravenous doses ketorolac showed overall good systemic tolerance and safety in comparison with placebo. Myalgia and taste perversion were more frequently reported in the ketorolac group. The frequency of injection site complaints, mostly transient pain, was about 80% for both ketorolac and placebo, indicating these were likely caused by the vehicle. There were no significant changes in the scales assessing anxiety, depression, sleep and opiate withdrawal during treatment with ketorolac and after its withdrawal, suggesting that the drug has neither any major central effects nor any clear addiction potential in this dose schedule. Pharmacokinetic parameters were derived from plasma samples collected after the first and last active doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To assess some possible reasons for the changes of weight and eating behaviour at a one year follow up in 33 severely obese subjects (mean BMI, 39.9 s.d. 5.2) treated in a nursing behavioural-treatment program, three instruments were used; the Self Motivation Inventory (SMI), the Sense of Coherence Scale (SOC) and the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). The Three Factor Eating Questionnaire (EI) measuring restrained eating, disinhibition and hunger, was used to register the change of eating behaviour. The weight lost at the one year follow-up was significantly (P < .01) correlated to the restrained eating score at the time for the follow-up as well as to the difference value (P < .01) of the restraint score before and one year after treatment and to the number of participated booster sessions (P < .05). The SMI score, as measured before treatment, correlated significantly to all the EI subscales scores at the one-year follow-up (P < .05, P < .01, P < .01). Thus, the greater the self motivation, the more restraint and the less disinhibition and hunger. In turn, the SOC score correlated significantly (P < .01) to the SMI score. Thus, the stronger the sense of coherence, the more perceived self-motivation. Finally, there was a significant negative correlation between the KSP subscales Somatic Anxiety (P < .01), Muscular Tension (P < .05), Psychic Anxiety (P < .001), Psychasthenia (P < .01), Hostility (P < .001), and Inhibition of Aggression (P < .001) and a positive correlation between Socialization (P < .05) and the SOC score.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We examined the plasma concentrations and resultant clinical effects produced by four different propofol bolus infusion regimens in 98 healthy males undergoing elective urologic procedures under regional anesthesia. Patients were randomly assigned to one of four propofol dosage groups. In Groups 1-4, loading doses of propofol equal to 0.2, 0.4, 0.5, or 0.7 mg/kg intravenously, respectively, were followed by fixed-rate propofol infusions of 0.5, 1, 2, or 4 mg.kg-1.h-1, respectively, during the regional block procedure. Sedation (sleepiness) was assessed independently by the patient and a blinded observer using 100-mm visual analog scales. Intraoperative amnesia was assessed using picture recall. Sedation scores increased in a dose-dependent fashion (13 +/- 19, 21 +/- 19, 45 +/- 28, and 73 +/- 26 mm at 30 min in Groups 1-4, respectively). Within a given dosage group, sedation scores were stable during the maintenance infusion period. Mean plasma propofol concentrations increased with higher propofol infusion rates (0.16 +/- 0.3, 0.18 +/- 0.1, 0.47 +/- 0.2, and 1.1 +/- 0.8 microgram/mL at 30 min in Groups 1-4, respectively). However, significant variability was observed among individual patient sedation scores and plasma propofol concentrations. Anxiety scores decreased in all four propofol infusion groups during the maintenance period. Hemodynamic variables and hemoglobin oxygen saturation values were similar in all four treatment groups. Recovery from propofol's central effects was rapid after discontinuation of the propofol infusion, and the incidence of side effects was low. Recall of intraoperative events was more commonly observed in the lower-dosage groups (86%, 96%, 58%, and 13% of patients in Groups 1-4, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study examined whether experiences of handicap influence levels of depression and distress among persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) during the years after initial discharge from rehabilitation. SCI outpatients (163), who had received inpatient treatment at one of two rehabilitation centers in Michigan and who were between 2 to 7 years since injury, participated in the study. Measures of depression, of psychological distress and of handicap were collected during 2 consecutive years utilizing the Zung Self-Rating Scale, the Brief Symptom Inventory and the Craig Handicap Assessment and Reporting Technique (CHART) in conjunction with the Perceived Handicap Questionnaire (PHQ), respectively. According to the study's findings, depressed/distressed SCI subjects reported spending more hours in bed (P < 0.01), fewer days out of the house (P < 0.03) and receiving more paid personal care assistance (P < 0.02) than did other subjects. They also expended more for general medical expenses (P < 0.001) and reported less access to readily available transportation (P < 0.003). CHART total scores, reflecting a simple objective measure of handicap as described by Whiteneck et al. (Whiteneck GG, Charlifue SW, Gerhart KA, Overholser JD, Richardson GN: Guide for Use of the CHART: Craig Handicap Assessment and Reporting Technique. Craig Hospital, CO, 1988) were significantly associated with both distress and depression as measured during the second year of data collection. Other significant predictors of depression and distress included subjects' self-perceived handicap (measured by the PHQ), gender, marital status and age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A review of the records and follow-up of 106 patients who had been referred to pain management clinics in Auckland between January 1990 and October 1992 because of chronic, protracted, orofacial pain, showed that more than half gained lasting benefit. This is consistent with the experience of other interdisciplinary pain clinics dealing with various chronic pain disorders, where previous and often multiple treatments have proved unsuccessful. The patients who made good progress tended to be those motivated to take charge of, and responsibility for, their own rehabilitation. Those patients still seeking a "cure", or who felt it was not up to them to take an active part in the management of their pain problem, tended to make poor or no progress. Of concern was the number of instances of misdiagnosis seen, resulting in inappropriate and, on occasion, harmful treatments. On average, the patients had consulted three general or specialist dental or medical practitioners before referral. Chronic pain problems usually require considerable time and a multidisciplinary environment for accurate diagnoses, and a carefully planned management programme. Often, neither are readily available to the busy general practitioner, whose training and experience is directed toward the treatment of acute pain. As a result, patients with chronic pain often end up treated with methods more appropriate for acute pain, which may entrench and compound the pain problem and lead to permanent disability. Recognition and referral of the patient with chronic pain at an early stage can improve the chances of successful management, and avoid frustration and disillusionment of both the practitioner and the patient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The high economical costs produced by the impact of low back pain on sick-listing and loss of manpower at work encouraged the search for personal or situational characteristics that indicate an increased risk for an acute onset of back pain or for its continuation towards chronicity. Risk factors for the onset of acute pain identified at the workplace refer to mechanical and psychomental strain. Vibration as well as lifting and carrying of heavy loads, especially if combined with a twisting of the trunk, are the most prominent mechanical risks, whereas dissatisfaction with the job or the working conditions, especially if there is a lack of social support either at the workplace or at home by the family or the spouse, increase the risk on a psychosocial level. Although these risks continue to be effective in the process of chronicity, other risks pertaining to behavioral and emotional reactions to the acute pain episode gain in importance. At the acute level, avoidance of physical and social activities are often encouraged by physicians who prescribe bed rest or give advice to regulate the active reinvolvement in daily life by assessing pain levels ('let the pain guide'). On the other hand, with regard to the prevention of chronicity, a strategy of graded early activation aiming at a reinforcement of healthy behaviors has more beneficial effects. After a short period of bed rest, no longer than two days, if at all necessary, patients are taught to maintain their daily activities and to practice specified exercises, while receiving time-contingent pain medication.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Effects of an intraperitoneally (i.p.) administered histamine H2-receptor antagonist, ranitidine, on plasma levels of vasopressin and oxytocin were studied in male rats under unstressed or stressed conditions. In the rats injected i.p. with the vehicle (saline) solution, plasma vasopressin level was significantly lower and plasma oxytocin level was significantly higher after weak electric foot shocks (10 ms pulses of 0.8 mA, 50 Hz and 1 s duration, repeated at 30 s intervals for a period of 5 min) than those levels in the unshocked control rats. Ranitidine injected i.p. at a dose of 100 mg per kg body weight blocked the suppressive vasopressin but not the facilitatory oxytocin response to the shocks. Novel environmental stimuli were applied to rats in such a way that the animals were transferred to an experimental room, placed in a white-painted plastic pail and administered an intermittent 2 kHz and 70 dB pure tone of 2 s duration that was repeated at 10 s intervals for 2 min. In the rats injected i.p. with the vehicle solution, plasma vasopressin level was lower and oxytocin level was higher after the novel stimuli than in the unstimulated control rats. Ranitidine injected i.p. at a dose of 100 mg per kg body weight blocked the suppressive vasopressin but not the facilitatory oxytocin response to the novel stimuli. Ranitidine administered i.p. at doses of 10, 20, 50 and 100 mg per kg body weight was tested for the suppressive vasopressin response to the novel stimuli given for periods of 2 or 5 min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To assess relationships of total plasma cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) values to suicide, suicide ideation, and hospitalization for psychiatric disease, we studied 220 children, ages 5 to 18 y, hospitalized with affective, adjustment, disruptive, anxiety, schizophrenic, other, and organic psychiatric disorders. The 135 male and 85 female patients had higher TG values (p = 0.0001 and 0.0003, respectively) and higher Quetelet Indices (p = 0.0001 and 0.003, respectively) than the 732 male and 316 female schoolchild controls; male patients had higher TC values than male controls (p = 0.014). Substance abuse in patients was an independent inverse determinant of TC value (p = 0.05); TG value correlated positively with alcohol use (p < or = 0.1) and substance abuse (p < 0.05). After covariance adjustment for age, race, sex, and Quetelet, children having adjustment disorders with depression had much lower covariance-adjusted TC value than control schoolchildren (3.91 versus 4.29 mmol/L, p = 0.003), whereas those with disruptive behavior with oppositional defiant disorder had much higher adjusted TC value (5.09 mmol/L, p = 0.0001). After covariance adjusting for age, race, sex, Quetelet, cigarette smoking, alcohol use, and substance abuse, children having adjustment disorders with concomitant depression had the highest group suicide tendencies (attempts and ideation) and the lowest covariance-adjusted TC value (4.03 mmol/L). Conversely, children having disruptive behavior with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or disruptive behavior with oppoistional defiant disorder had 50% lower suicide index than those with adjustment disorders with concomitant depression and higher adjusted TC levels (4.45 and 5.12 mmol/L, p = 0.0003).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A survey was conducted to examine the prevalence of depressive symptomatology among residents of a rural community using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression (CES-D) Scale. Subjects were 220 men and 319 women aged between 30 and 69 who participated in annual community health examinations. The relation of depressive symptomatology to the results of physical examination, self-rated health status, subjective symptoms and lifestyles were also examined. The results are as follows. 1) Of the subjects, 13.2% of the men and 16.3% of the women had depressive symptomatology (CES-D score > or = 16), with 4.5% of the men and 9.4% of the women having moderate or severe depressive symptomatology (CES-D score > or = 20). Prevalence was higher for younger men and for women in their forties, but these differences were not statistically significant. 2) There was a weak correlation between depressive symptomatology and the results of physical examination. Self-rated health status was more significantly correlated with depressive symptomatology. Self-rated health status and depressive symptomatology each correlated independently with the number of symptoms experienced by the subjects over the past year. The subjective symptoms that were correlated with depressive symptomatology were different from those correlated to self-rated health status. Men and women also had differences in links between depressive symptomatology, self-rated health status and symptoms experienced. 3) Lifestyles of those who had depressive symptomatology were worse than those who did not. But only duration of sleep and food intake had statistically significant relation to depressive symptomatology. Only weak correlations between lifestyles and self-rated health status were observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In cognitive science, lexical decision task is used to investigate visual word recognition and lexical access. The issue of whether or not individuals who are depressed differ in their access to affectively laden words and specifically to words that have negative affect was examined. Based on some aspects of the Resource Allocation Model (Ellis), it was postulated that patients suffering from depression take more time to recognize items from an affective-loaded list. In order to compare their behavior in a lexical decision task, patients suffering from depression and healthy controls were studied. We hoped to find an interaction between the mood state of subjects and the categories (affective or neutral) of words. Two groups of right-handed adults served as subjects in our experiment. The first group consisted of 11 patients suffering from depression (mean age: 40.2; sd: 6.8). All of this group met the DSM-III-R and the Research Diagnostic Criteria for major depressive disorder. Severity of their disease was rated using the 24-item Hamilton Depressive Rating Scale. All patients suffering from depression were without psychotropic medication. The control group was composed of 24 subjects (mean age: 32.7; sd: 7.9). A depressive word-list and a neutral word-list were built and a computer was used for the lexical-decision task. A longer reaction time to detect the non-word stimuli (F1,33 = 11.19, p < 0.01) was observed with the patients by comparison to the normal subjects. In the analysis of the word stimuli, a group by list interaction (F1,33 = 7.18, p < 0.01) was found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The illness career of the person with cancer has been characterized as a 'living-dying' experience in which, faced with the intolerable incompatibility of life and death, the individual and his or her family attempt to maintain control and 'normalize' everyday activity. Unfortunately, in their everyday struggles, families in North America appear to face social isolation from existing community services and networks that might assist them. Perhaps because the illness is so heavily medicalized and stigmatized, most persons with cancer and their families do not participate in them. A minority benefit from self-help organizations such as Cancer Society groups and survivor coalitions. The palliative care and hospice/home care movements provide an alternative to dying in the acute-care hospital, again, for a minority. Half of those with cancer survive more than 5 years; for these persons, the ordeal has just begun. Survivors must cope with physical disabilities due to surgery and the side effects of other treatments, the psychological traumas of fear of recurrence and social stigma, and the disappointment of a considerably reduced range of future possibilities for career and development. The fact that their relationships with others are negatively affected is well documented, particularly with intimate relationships. In a sense, a person never really 'gets over' cancer: it is a sword of Damocles that continues to hang over the individual and his or her family for the rest of the person's life.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study investigated diurnal variations in the affective and endocrine response to opioid blockade in man and whether there were effects related either to the dose of naloxone or the time of day at which it was given. Normal male subjects were given an intravenous bolus of either 0.2 mg/kg (study 1) or 1 mg/kg naloxone (study 2) or control infusions at two time points (0900 or 1800 hours) in a single-blind crossover design. Before and following each infusion, mood was measured by the Profile of Mood States (POMS) and a visual analogue scale (VAS), and blood samples taken at 15-min intervals. Cortisol, LH ACTH and vasopressin (study 2 only) were measured. Blood pressure and heart rate were also monitored. The lower dose of naloxone had no effect on overall mood (POMS), though tension and confusion were increased in the afternoon. The VAS showed increased depression in the afternoon, and heightened tension, sleepiness and reduced ability to concentrate at both times of day. The higher dose increased overall dysphoria at both time points, though the tension and depression subscales were not altered. VAS depression and tension were increased, and there were changes in sleepiness. Subjective reports showed that 45% of the subjects correctly identified the drug treatment at the lower dose compared with 89% at the higher one. ACTH increased after both doses of naloxone irrespective of time of day. Cortisol was also raised by naloxone; the effect was greater in the afternoon for the lower dose, but not the higher.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Schedule-induced polydipsia occurs when food-deprived rats are exposed to a fixed-interval feeding schedule (FI = 60 s) for 1 h every day. Amperozide, a novel antipsychotic drug with a strong affinity for the 5-HT2 receptor, was injected i.p. after completion of the requisite training sessions. The experimental rationale is that although the intensity of licking behavior in schedule-induced polydipsia can be taken as an index for anxiety, the drug-induced motor dysfunction should be assessed. In experiment 1, we tested the effect of amperozide on schedule-induced polydipsia at doses of 2, 4, and 8 mg/kg. The data showed that each dose significantly diminished the amount of licking and water intake. The number of presses decreased only at the dose of 8 mg/kg. During five post-treatment daily sessions for 5 days, these three measures returned to normal levels except that the number of pellets earned during the sessions did not significantly change. In addition, the number of presses showed a rebound after the termination of amperozide administration. In experiment 2, in addition to the total water intake, number of licks, pellets earned and presses, we also analyzed the postpellet temporal variation in the number of licks and presses in each schedule-induced polydipsia session. The drug was stopped for one day after each dose of 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 mg/kg of amperozide. The data showed that doses from 0.2 to 0.8 mg/kg did not alter any measure in drug-treated sessions and that the dose of 1.6 mg/kg decreased the number of licks and water intake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Since 1985, only four studies have been published that present data on attachment loss in populations. The purpose of this study was to present the incidence of attachment loss over an 18-month period in a representative sample of community-dwelling older adults. In addition, the utility of multivariate prediction models to distinguish between people who will and will not experience disease progression was explored. The Piedmont 65+ Dental Study of the Elderly is a longitudinal investigation of a random sub-sample of over 1,000 community-dwelling people over the age of 65 in five contiguous North Carolina counties. The five dentists who conducted the in-home examinations and interviews at baseline also participated at 18 months and examined the same subjects. The overall attrition rate for blacks was 27% and the rate for whites was 23%. At 18-months, the baseline attachment level scores for those subjects who were lost from the study were not significantly different from the scores of those who remained in the study. A change in attachment loss of 3 mm or more over the 18 months was set as a conservative estimate of actual change taking place. Blacks were significantly more likely to experience attachment loss irrespective of the number of sites involved (P < .05). Approximately half the people had at least one losing site and about one-third of the blacks and one-fourth of the whites had at least two losing sites. A total of 24% of blacks and 16% of whites had 3 or more losing sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Amitriptyline is the medication of first choice in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache. In 197 patients with chronic tension-type headache (87M and 110F with a mean age of 38 +/- 13 (18-68)) efficacy and tolerability of 60-90 mg amitriptylinoxide (AO) were compared with 50-75 mg amitriptyline (AM) and placebo (PL) in a double-blind, parallel-group trial consisting of a four weeks' baseline phase and 12 weeks of treatment. The primary study endpoint was a reduction of at least 50% of the product of headache duration and frequency and a reduction of at least 50% in headache intensity. Statistics used were Fisher's exact test and analysis of variance. No significant difference emerged between AO, AM and PL with respect to the primary study endpoint. Treatment response occurred in 30.3% of the AO, 22.4% of the AM and 21.9% of the PL group. A reduction in headache duration and frequency of at least 50% was found in 39.4% on AO, in 25.4% on AM and in 26.6% on PL (PAO-PL = .1384, PAM-PL = 1.000, PAO-AM = .0973). A reduction in headache intensity of at least 50% was found in 31.8% on AO, in 26.9% on AM and in 26.6% on PL (PAO-PL = .5657, PAM-PL = 1.000, PAO-AM = .5715). Trend analysis with respect to a significant reduction of headache intensity (p < 0.05) and the product of headache duration and frequency revealed a superior effect of AO.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This paper presents the results of a study carried on an urban population in Belgrade investigating the connections between relapse in schizophrenia and the expressed emotion (EE) status of families where at least one of the patient's parents was a member of the household. The overall rate of high EE was just under 50%, in the middle of the range of values reported in studies carried out elsewhere. Relapse was found to be 10 times more frequent in patients whose families were rated high in EE. The sample consisted of 30 patients with hebephrenic schizophrenia and 30 with paranoid schizophrenia. The results suggested that these subtypes may be associated with different attributes of EE. Criticism was more frequent in families of patients with paranoid schizophrenia, while emotional overinvolvement was more frequent in families having a hebephrenic offspring. The different components of EE, suitably combined, may differentiate between the two subtypes of schizophrenia in terms of relapse rate. The relative odds for high criticism were similar for both subtypes, but for maternal overinvolvement (EOI) the odds were 10.5 for hebephrenic as against 2.3 for paranoid schizophrenia. Thus, EOI was more common in the families of those with hebephrenia and also led more frequently to relapse. There was also an inverse relationship between relapse rate and warmth, whether paternal or maternal. This was significant in both subtypes, and indicated that the threshold for the positive effect of warmth was higher for fathers than for mothers. Marital conflict was significantly related to relapse, mainly because it was associated with high EE.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study examined the effects of fat content and meal size on postlunch changes in mood, performance, and cardiovascular function. Forty-six subjects (20 males, 26 females) were tested before and after lunch. Subjects were assigned to one of the following lunch conditions: a) low fat (23 g), large meal (860 g); b) low fat (18 g), small meal (600 g); c) high fat (84 g), large meal (840 g); d) high fat (79 g), small meal (530 g). The results showed only small effects of fat composition and meal size, with no cardiovascular effects being observed and no evidence of fat content or the weight of the meal influencing performance of logical reasoning or cognitive vigilance tasks. A few effects of meal type were significant in the mood data, but given the large number of analyses conducted, these could represent chance effects. Results from two selective attention tasks showed that subjects given the high-fat meals responded more slowly but more accurately, which differs from the effects of carbohydrate, protein, and calorie content reported in earlier papers. Weight of the meal influenced the degree of distraction from near and far distractors and also the accuracy of responses to central and peripheral targets. However, both the effects of fat and meal size were modified by task parameters, and further research is required before firm conclusions can be drawn about the functional importance of the influences of nutrient content and meal size on performance. The high-fat and large meals were rated as more acceptable than the low-fat and small meals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The interest in separation anxiety is nowadays increasing: this disorder appearing during childhood may predispose to the occurrence of anxiety disorders (such as panic disorder and agoraphobia) and major depression into adulthood. Psychoanalytic theories differ on the nature of separation anxiety and its place in child development. For some authors, separation anxiety must be understood as resulting from the unconscious internal conflicts inherent in the individuation process and gradual attainment of autonomy. From this point of view, the fear of loss of mother by separation is not regarded as resulting from a real danger. However, Freud considers the primary experience of separation from protecting mother as the prototype situation of anxiety and compares the situations generating fear to separation experiences. For him, anxiety originates from two factors: the physiological fact is initiated at the time of birth but the primary traumatic situation is the separation from mother. This point of view may be compared with behavioral theories. Behavioral theories suggest that separation anxiety may be conditioned or learned from innate fears. In Freud's theory, the primary situation of anxiety resulting from the separation from mother plays a role comparable to innate fears. Grappling with the problem of separation anxiety, Bowlby emphasizes then the importance of the child's attachment to one person (mother or primary caregiver) and the fact that this attachment is instinctive. This point of view, based on the watch of infants, is akin to ethological theories on behaviour of non human primates. Bowlby especially shows that the reactions of infant separated from mother evolve on three stages: the phase of protestation which may constitute the prototype of adulthood anxiety, the phase of desperation which may be the prototype of depression, and the phase of detachment. He emphasizes so the role of early separations in the development of vulnerability to depression. For Bowlby, these reactions are not acquired but genetically programmed and biologically determined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Chronic pain and depression often coexist, but there is still uncertainty about the nature of this relationship. Virtually all the available data are cross-sectional and therefore do not clarify the causal relationship between the two variables. In epidemiological studies, chronic pain has often been defined fairly liberally in terms of the actual duration. In this study, the definition of chronic pain was based upon self-reports of pain present for most of the days in at least 1 month of the 12 months preceding the interview. We tested the hypotheses that depression causes pain and that pain causes depression in a sample of 2324 subjects who were assessed for the presence of musculo-skeletal pain and the presence of depression, using for the latter a standardized published instrument called the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D). The subjects were first examined using the National Health and Nutrition Survey (NHANES 1) of the United States National Center for Health Statistics from 1974 to 1975, and were followed-up from 1981 to 1984. Those with data on both occasions represent 76% of an initial population of 3059 persons. On logistic regression analysis depressive symptoms at year 1 significantly predicted the development of chronic musculo-skeletal pain at year 8 with an odds ratio of 2.14 for the depressed subjects compared with the non-depressed subjects. In patients in whom pain was present at baseline no socio-demographic variable alone predicted its persistence; however, male sex and white race together with 2 items of the CES-D did predict the persistence of existing pain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Previous reports indicate that some patients with eating disorders have alexithymic characteristics, including affect deficit states and paucity of imagination. This study evaluated whether nonhospitalized patients with bulimia nervosa had elevated ratings of alexithymia in comparison to age-matched controls, and whether severity of bulimic symptoms was correlated with elevations in alexithymia ratings. Because alexithymia may be secondary to concurrent depression, this study was limited to patients with bulimia nervosa who were free of major depression. The authors compared alexithymia ratings for nonhospitalized normal weight women meeting DSM-III-R criteria for bulimia nervosa (N = 20) to healthy female volunteers (N = 20), utilizing the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS) as the primary assessment instrument. Subjects also completed standardized rating scales for bulimic symptoms, depression, and anxiety. Alexithymia rating scale scores were significantly higher for patients with bulimia nervosa than for controls. In comparison to controls, patients had significant elevations on TAS factors reflecting affect deficit states, but normal scores for factors reflecting imagination and abstract thinking. Frequency of binge eating or purging behaviors was not correlated with alexithymia ratings. These data indicate that some patients with bulimia nervosa have alexithymic characteristics. Affect dysregulation was more prominent than limitation in fantasy or metaphorical thought. Additional studies are needed to assess whether presence of alexithymic characteristics may be predictive of response to treatment in patients with bulimia nervosa.

Using prospective data from the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Epidemiologic Catchment Area surveys, we examined the relationship of depressive symptoms among patients seen by general medical practitioners, with the subsequent development of major depressive disorder. The goals of the analysis were to determine 1) the 1-year psychiatric status of these individuals, and 2) to evaluate factors associated with the risk of major depressive disorder (MDD) or dysthymia. Between 1980 and 1984, collaborators of the NIMH Epidemiologic Catchment Area program recruited 18,571 adult participants after probability sampling of census tracts and households in five metropolitan areas. To assess the occurrence of psychiatric conditions over time, staff administered the Diagnostic Interview Schedule soon after sampling and again at follow-up 1 year later. For this analysis, the study sample was limited to respondents who reported seeing a general medical physician in the previous 6 months and who were free of current depressive disorder at the baseline interview. Overall, 41% of the general medical patients reported experiencing at least one depressive symptom in the past 6 months. Between 3 and 5% of the individuals with depressive symptoms developed MDD or dysthymia at the follow-up interview. Although individuals with depressed mood had a slightly higher estimated relative risk compared with individuals with vegetative, or nonvegetative (cognitive) depressive symptoms, no single classification of symptoms was appreciably more likely to signal MDD or dysthymia 1 year later. However, the risk of depression increased with the number of depressive symptoms reported.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Because death of a patient is one of the most emotionally disruptive events in the health professionals' life as well as the bereaved, it was hypothesized that surgeons' and nurses' attitudes in the burn centre would interfere with their emotional support of the bereaved family. Consequently, we performed a psychometric assessment of the surgeons', nurses' and bereaved families' attitudes about death and dying in the burn centre. A psychometric instrument was developed and validated that assessed 13 surgical directors' of burn centres, 13 burn nurses' and nine bereaved family members' attitudes on death and dying in the burn centre. In the case of the bereaved family member, this instrument was complemented by interviews to ensure that the respondents understood each question. All surgeons and nurses were experienced health professionals working for an average of 12 +/- 8 years and 3 +/- 1 years respectively. The majority of burn surgeons (six) and the burn nurses (seven) found it to be emotionally difficult to support emotionally the bereaved family after the death of the patient. Over half the burn surgeons (seven) and nurses (seven) felt that the process of dealing with the bereaved family was different from that experienced in other hospital settings. The surgeons attributed this difference to the long duration of the patients' illnesses, while the nurses felt that it was due to the traumatic and painful qualities of burn injury. These emotional difficulties experienced by the staff in dealing with the dying patients were associated with a relatively low frequency of contact with the bereaved families after the patients' death.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

From the viewpoint of prevention of cerebrovascular disease, we examined the relationship between irritable persons (CMI, Q-180 positive) and the levels of serum triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (T-chol), HDL-cholesterol among farmers, part-time farmers and non-farmers among 1075 inhabitants, consisting of 306 males with a mean age of 54, and 76 females with a mean age of 49, in a rural area with a high frequency of apoplex. Since the levels of serum TG, T-chol, HDL-chol in male farmers showed the same pattern as that of female part-time farmers, it seemed that the female farmers were working as heavily as the male farmers. Irritable male farmers showed a higher level of TG and lower level of HDL-chol than other personalities. However, irritable female farmers showed significantly lower levels of TG or higher level of HDL-chol than that of other personalities. Obesity measured by BMI of irritable persons showed the same level among occupations in male farmers. Also there was no difference in BMI levels of irritable persons among female part-time farmers and non-farmers. Irritable male farmers showed higher levels of TG and lower levels of HDL-chol than non-farmers and showed the same level of T-chol. The levels of these parameters in non-farmers showed the same levels as in the rural inhabitants. The levels of TG and HDL-chol of irritable male farmers were higher and that of T-chol was lower than those of irritable non-farmers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study examined the effects of constant nicotine infusions on dopamine overflow in the nucleus accumbens and on locomotor activity and compared them with the changes evoked by repeated daily injections (one injection per day for 5 days) of the drug. The putative anxiolytic properties of nicotine have also been examined using the elevated plus-maze test of anxiety. Repetitive daily subcutaneous injections of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg) enhanced (P < 0.01) the overflow of dopamine evoked by a challenge dose of the drug (0.4 mg/kg) and increased (P < 0.01) its stimulatory effects on locomotor activity. The constant infusion of nicotine, at doses of 1 and 4 mg/kg per day, abolished (P < 0.05) the effects of a bolus injection of nicotine on extracellular dopamine and attenuated (P < 0.01) the enhanced locomotor response evoked by daily pretreatment with nicotine boli. The mesolimbic dopamine response to a bolus injection of nicotine was not significantly attenuated by nicotine infusions when the dose was reduced to 0.25 mg/kg per day. The locomotor responses in these rats were significantly (P < 0.05) less than those seen in the animals pretreated with nicotine injections alone but were also higher (P < 0.05) than those seen in saline-treated control rats given a bolus injection of nicotine. Neither the constant infusion (4 mg/kg per day) nor the injection of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg) evoked an anxiolytic or anxiogenic effect in the elevated plus-maze test. However, the nicotine infusions did abolish the locomotor stimulant effects of the drug in this apparatus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study tested the hypotheses that: (1) defensive rage behavior elicited from the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) in the cat is facilitated from the basal complex of amygdala; and (2) such facilitation from this region of amygdala is mediated via a pathway in which excitatory amino acids acting upon NMDA receptors within the PAG are utilized as a neurotransmitter. In the first phase of this study, cannula electrodes were implanted into PAG sites for the elicitation of defensive rage behavior as well as for drug delivery. Then, a second monopolar electrode was implanted into the basal nucleus of amygdala from which facilitation of defensive rage could be obtained. As a result of dual stimulation of the basal amygdala and PAG, response latencies for defensive rage were significantly lowered relative to PAG stimulation alone (P < 0.01). In the second phase of this experiment, 3 doses of a selective NMDA receptor antagonist, AP-7 (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 mg/kg), were peripherally (i.p.) administered in 5 animals. The results indicated a significant decrease in the facilitatory effects of amygdaloid stimulation in a dose and time dependent manner (P < 0.001). In the third phase, AP-7 was administered intracerebrally into PAG defensive rage sites in doses of 0.2 and 2.0 nmol. It was noted that intracerebral microinjections of AP-7 at the higher dose (2.0 nmol) also significantly suppressed the facilitatory effects of amygdaloid stimulation (P < 0.01); however, these effects were somewhat less potent then those observed following peripheral drug administration. A fourth phase of the study was conducted at the completion of the pharmacological experiments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Little is known about the degree of disability and quality of life of patients after major trauma. We conducted a prospective study to examine the incidence and predictors of functional limitation (FL). Between January 1, 1990 and March 30, 1990, 61 eligible trauma patients were enrolled in the study (admission GCS score > or = 12, LOS > 24 hours). Functional limitation after trauma was measured at discharge and 3 months after discharge using the Quality of Well-being (QWB) scale, a more sensitive index to the well end of the functioning continuum (range, 0 = death to 1.000 = optimum functioning). Functional limitation was also measured using a standard ADL scale (range, 17 = full function to 41 = maximum dysfunction). Risk factors measured were injury severity, body region, depression (CES-D) scale, and social support. Follow-up was achieved in 42 patients (70%). The mean age was 30 years, 74% were male, 52% white, 41% hispanic, and 3% other. The mean ISS was 15, with 69% blunt injuries and a mean LOS of 12 days. The QWB scores improved between discharge and follow-up; discharge mean = 0.457 (+/- 0.048), follow-up mean = 0.613 (+/- 0.118), but the mean QWB score at follow-up still reflected a significant degree of functional limitation. The mean percentage of change in QWB scores was 34.5% (+/- 25.5%) with a range of -6.34% to 103.8%. The discharge mean FDS was 29 (+/- 6.2) while the follow-up FDS mean was 17 (+/- 3.8), reflecting that most patients at follow-up reported near-perfect ADL functioning.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In this paper, I use the Japanese keywords "Sumanai" and "Sumu-Akirameru" to discuss the guilt feelings towards mother and maternal separation. "Sumanai" is an everyday Japanese expression signifying both a regretful apology and an obsessive compulsive feeling. The Japanese frequently say "Sumanai" to express their guilt feeling towards a dependent object. Clinical observation has shown me that "Sumanai" implies not only pathological guilt but also a more healthy contrite feeling, two sides of "Sumanai" which correspond to the persecutory guilt and depressive guilt described by L. Grinberg. In therapy, patients passing through the depressive position experience a kind of protective harmonious space. This experience of space associated with object loss is similar to potential space (D.W. Winnicott) or philobatism (M. Balint), and can be expressed by the Japanese term "Sumu-Akirameru". "Sumu" means clean, pure and "to take root". "Akirameru" means both "to abandon" and "to see calmly". "Sumanai" is the negative of "Sumu" and its pathological guilt feeling implies a sense of impurity. I have discovered close resemblances between "Sumu-Akirameru" and philobatism (M. Balint): 1) both are observed in the therapeutic depressive position; 2) both have an affinity for friendly expanses while simultaneously tending to avoid the external object; 3) both have a visual attribute and insight; 4) both have the special qualities of "submerging in" and "taking root", allowing patients to awaken their sense of self in this protective harmonious space; 5) both imply that the time is ripe for psychological change; 6) both involve a kind of complexity constituted of a regressive element and adaptability contrary to reality. As described above, "Sumu-Akirameru" as a psychotherapeutic phenomenon has many universal characteristics. On the other hand, there are several differences between "Sumu-Akirameru" and philobatism, differences deeply rooted in Japanese culture: 1) "Sumu-Akirameru" implies cleanliness and beauty, lacking in philobatism. It is well-known that these qualities of cleanliness and beauty form the essence of the traditional Japanese religion (Shintoism); 2) Japanese patients passing through the depressive position often experience merging with the natural scenery, and it is said that traditional Japanese culture is deeply influenced by animism or nature worship; 3) Japanese patients experience "Sumu-Akirameru" as a sitting image, whereas Western patients experience philobatism as a standing image. The Japanese may associate this sitting image with the Buddha as the most mature individual. 4) Visually, "Sumu-Akirameru" is experienced as calmly viewing natural scenery, whereas philobatism is experienced as gazing at an object.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Within a double-blind, comparative study on the effects of the long-half-life benzodiazepine (BDZ), quazepam, and the short-half-life BDZ, triazolam, on clinical symptomatology, sleep and anxiety of 45 patients with insomnia based on a mild to moderate generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) (ICD-9 code: 307.42-1, 300,0; ASDC-APSS-Code: A.2.a), we compared, in a first step at baseline, drug-free polysomnographic and psychometric data of 22 patients recorded in the laboratory (L-group) and 21 patients recorded by the Oxford Medilog 9000 system at home (H-group) with those of normal controls. Sleep efficiency, total sleep time, wake within total sleep period (middle insomnia) and wake before buzzer (late insomnia) were significantly deteriorated in both patient groups as compared with controls, while sleep induction time only differed significantly in home recordings. Regarding sleep architecture, stage (S)2 was reduced, S3 and S4 increased in the H-group only, while no intergroup differences were seen in S1, SREM and REM latency. Subjective sleep quality was reduced in both patient groups, but not awakening quality. Psychometric tests in the morning demonstrated for the noopsyche, only a significantly deteriorated psychomotor activity in both patient groups. In the thymopsyche, evening well-being and mood in the morning were reduced in both the L- and H-group, affectivity and morning well-being only in the H-group. The psychopharmacological part of the study was completed by 40 patients (there were 4 drop-outs in the triazolam, 1 in the quazepam group). They were treated after 1 week placebo with either 15-30 mg (median 15 mg) quazepam or 0.25-0.5 mg (median 0.25 mg) triazolam for 4 weeks, and thereafter for 2 weeks with placebo. Anxiety (rated by HAMA and SAS) improved significantly with both drugs and remained improved throughout 2 weeks post-drug placebo, with quazepam being slightly superior to triazolam. Polysomnography demonstrated a shortened sleep onset only after quazepam. Sleep efficiency improved after acute administration of both drugs, but the improvement was maintained by quazepam only (tolerance development with triazolam). Rebound insomnia was observed only in the 1st post-triazolam placebo night (significant intergroup difference based on confirmatory testing). S2 increased, S3 + S4 decreased under and after quazepam, which represents a normalization in home-recorded GAD patients. S1 decreased with both drugs, SREM only under quazepam. Subjective sleep quality behaved very similarly to objective sleep efficiency. Awakening quality improved after acute therapy with both drugs, somatic complaints only with quazepam.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The foregoing review has been organised in terms of five developmental hypotheses--let us now summarise the evidence bearing on each hypothesis. The first hypothesis, that a general prosocial impulse arises in the first year of life, is well-supported by the data. Some dispute remains about the point at which children are capable of responding sympathetically to companions in distress, with some investigators claiming that this takes place around the time of the second birthday (Kochanska, 1993), others placing this achievement earlier in development (Hoffman, 1975). The second, more controversial hypothesis, that the frequency of prosocial behaviour declines thereafter, is supported by cross-sectional data and by the burgeoning literature on the ways in which prosocial responding comes to be regulated cognitively and emotionally during the preschool years. Actual evidence for a decline and tests of hypotheses that the decline is associated with the acquisition of particular "display rules" and the regulation of empathic responding and guilt requires appropriately designed longitudinal studies. In general, our understanding of the normal course of prosocial development is limited due to the paucity of longitudinal data and the tendency of particular investigators to concentrate on single constructs--empathy, sharing, moral judgement or whatever--and not examine the interrelations of different types of prosocial behaviours in the same sample, tested under the same conditions. It is also not completely clear whether findings about empathic responding in experimental procedures (e.g. Miller et al., 1989) can be used to explain age changes in the selective display of prosocial behaviour under natural conditions. However, it is clear that future studies of prosocial development must examine the contributions of empathy, guilt and children's awareness of moral and conventional standards to children's overt prosocial actions with friends and family members. The contribution of children's close personal relationships, particularly their attachment relationships and close friendships, to prosocial behaviours, deserves increased attention. The third hypothesis was a claim that, during the childhood years, prosocial behaviour becomes differentiated in terms of gender, with females and males showing their prosocial tendencies in qualitatively different ways. Evidence bearing on this point is beset with measurement problems; it seems clear that girls report more empathy and are reputed by others to be more prosocial than boys, but direct observations do not always support such conclusions. Much more information is needed about ways in which boys in particular are prosocial--for example, co-operating with teammates whilst competing against other teams, in athletic contests.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

One of the most neglected populations studied in victimology has been juveniles. The present study examines the impact of fear of crime among a sample of urban youth on their defensive actions. Studies of urban adult populations have found that a significant number of people fear to venture outside their homes at night. When they do go out, they often take defensive measures to insure their safety. Carrying "mace," whistles, guns, knives, and clubs, for example, is not uncommon. Some have indicated that they have undertaken training in a variety of self-defensive arts and/or keep dogs to protect themselves from the possibility of being victimized. Using data collected from a sample of 1,775 urban youth in 1986 it was found that this population has taken many of the same defensive actions. Only 11% of the sample indicated that they had not taken any defensive actions as a result of fear of crime. Nearly three-fifths took the precaution of having an escort when they went out at night. Learning a technique of self-defense was reported by 19% of the sample; 10% indicated that they carried "mace" or some other type of repellant. Only 4% reported that they carried a whistle because of crime concerns. Significant predictors of personal defensive actions include gender, crime-witnessing status, victimization status and type of victimization (theft vs. witnessing Other defensive actions taken by members of the respondents' households included installing a burglar alarm (22%), keeping a "trained dog" (17%), keeping lights on a night (39%), and installing security locks (38%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Clinical conceptualizations of emotion that stress its disruptive influences and functional models of emotion that emphasize its adaptive aspects can be integrated into a developmental psychopathology framework. Under certain conditions, emotion regulation may develop dysregulatory aspects that can become a characteristic of an individual's coping style. This style may then jeopardize or impair functioning and become associated with symptomatic, disordered functioning. Emotional development provides a critical vantage point from which to study the development of symptomatology and psychopathology, particularly given the prevalence of emotional symptoms in various forms of psychopathology. Dimensions of emotionality that can be used to characterize dysregulation include access to the range of emotions, flexible modulation of intensity, duration, and transitions between emotions, acquisition and use of cultural display rules, and the ability to reflect on the complexity and value of one's own emotions in a self-supporting manner. Developmental psychopathology provides a framework within which to examine how emotions are regulatory, how their regulation changes over time, and under what conditions an adaptive emotion process can develop into a pattern of dysregulation that then becomes, or sustains, some symptoms of mental disorders. Such research requires samples that include children with and without risk or presence of particular mental health problems, paradigms that allow the examination of dimensions of emotionality in context and provide multiple assessments that include observations of children's reactions beyond what they themselves can report, and analyses that extend beyond simple global aggregates such as positive and negative emotion. We believe that it is particularly important to study children and their families in situations that challenge their emotional adaptation. The developmental tasks of emotional life evolve in exchanges between the child and the world of events and relationships. The emotional conditions of early childhood appear to be very important in optimizing or interfering with how the child's emotionality regulates his or her interpersonal and intrapsychic functioning and how the child learns to regulate emotion. The experiences that accrue around emotional events influence the stable aspects of the developing personality and become trait-like aspects of the person (Malatesta & Wilson, 1988). Dysregulation occurs when an emotional reaction loses breadth and flexibility. If a dysregulatory pattern becomes stabilized and part of the emotional repertoire, it is likely that this pattern is a symptom and supports other symptoms. When development and adaptation are compromised, the dysregulation has evolved into a form of psychopathology. The line between normative variations and clinical conditions is not clearly drawn.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The hospital mortality rate for stroke patients is now approximately 20%. Those who survive stroke are discharged to home disabled and the responsibility for providing adequate care to the patient has fallen primarily on family members. Maintaining the patients in the community may be ideal but it is not without cost. Although it is known that the role of family is critical to stroke rehabilitation, relatively few studies have examined caregiving within context of stroke, and nursing care is still limited to the patients ignoring family caregivers. Therefore, this study using grounded theory method was carried out to explore and explain the experiences of family caregivers from the time of the incidence throughout the course of stroke. The informants of the study were 24 family caregivers caring for the patients with stroke at hospitals or their homes. The study was conducted from March through August, 1992. Data were collected through in-depth interviews, telephone interviews and participant observation. Data collection and analysis were conducted concurrently allowing theoretical sampling and facilitating hypotheses to evolve. According to the results, caregiving has been associated with a range of negative experiences including emotional crisis, physical discomfort, guilty feeling, anxiety, feeling of social isolation, depression, hopelessness, and financial difficulties. Caregiving activities, commitment, recovery pattern accounted for the experiences of family caregivers, and the experiences varied according to the phases of the patient's recovery. The experiences of family caregivers are; emotional crisis upon a sudden occurrence of stroke; physical discomforts during hospitalization and the period the patients need an assistance with bathroom; feeling of social isolation beginning after discharge; and depression, hopelessness thereafter. Anxiety regarding the recurrence of stroke and the patient's prognosis was intensified with the patient's discharge to home. Guilty feeling was related to the caregiver's perceived role inadequacy. The type of relationship between caregiver and patient, sex of caregiver, and caregiver's financial status correlated to the experiences of family caregivers. Considering all the factors being related to such experiences as mentioned above, the following hypothesis were evolved. (1) The family caregivers who perceive that the patient's recovery has not reached their expectation feel higher level of anxiety. (2) Daughters-in-law feel the caregiving experiences more negative than spouses or adult-children. (3) Unmarried adult-children and daughters-in-law feel more of social isolation, depression, and hopelessness when the period of caregiving lasts longer. (4) Family caregivers who are male and self-supportive receive higher family support and feel the caregiving experiences less negatively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

There has been little study of the abuse liability of ephedrine, a naturally occurring drug used in medicine for thousands of years and currently sold as a "legal" stimulant. The present study measured the reinforcing and subjective effects of ephedrine in a group of 27 adults (18 females and 9 males) with no history of drug dependence. A discrete-trial choice procedure was used to assess the reinforcing effects of a single oral dose of ephedrine selected to produce a moderate subjective response in each subject (range: 37.5-75 mg). A number of variables (gender, current and past drug use, personality, and baseline mood and arousal) were examined in an attempt to identify sources of variability in response to ephedrine. Of the 27 subjects, 5 chose ephedrine on either 2 or 3 out of a possible 3 occasions; overall, ephedrine was chosen on 17% of occasions. In the group as a whole, ephedrine had no effect on ratings of drug liking, but did increase ratings of "high" and scores on the MBG ("euphoria") scale of the Addiction Research Center Inventory. Ephedrine also increased scores on a number of mood scales reflecting CNS stimulation and anxiety. Ephedrine choice was positively associated with current use of marijuana and lower levels of baseline anxiety and hunger, as well as with lower scores on two scales measuring dimensions of the personality trait of harm avoidance. Males and females differed in their response to ephedrine--males chose ephedrine more frequently than females and showed a more positive mood response to the drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Two experiments are described in which the performance of schizophrenic subjects was investigated, using tests of affect judgement and recognition memory for faces (Warrington), words, and semi-abstract patterns. Schizophrenic subjects were impaired in their ability to describe the emotional states portrayed by actors and presented on video and were more likely to comment on the physical description of the actor or to fail to comment on the emotion at all. Performance on the Warrington Recognition Memory Test for faces suggests a marked impairment in schizophrenia, although impaired performance on recognition memory tests for words and patterns indicates that this abnormality may not be specific for faces.

In a previous paper, we reported on the effect of a 0.2 mg/kg dose of midazolam, administered intranasally, prior to performing various restorative dental procedures on a group of mentally disabled patients under local anesthesia and nitrous oxide/oxygen analgesia. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical and possible adverse effect of doses of 0.2 mg/kg and 0.3 mg/kg midazolam, administered intranasally, and to determine the most appropriate concentration for the drug when administered by this route. Patients were assessed by a behavioral test which consisted of a scale from 1-7 with 3 ranges: markedly effective (1-3), effective (4-5) or ineffective (6-7). Forty-three mentally handicapped patients, aged 5 to 20 years, all of whom had previously exhibited highly combative and resistant behavior toward dental treatment under local anesthesia, were stratified by age and randomly assigned in a double blind manner to two groups, receiving either 0.2 mg/kg or 0.3 mg/kg midazolam administered intranasally. Group 1, consisting of 22 patients, average age 11 years 8 months, received 0.2 mg/kg. Group 2 consisted of 21 patients, average age 13 years 8 months, each of whom was administered 0.3 mg/kg intranasal midazolam. Only patients assessed as ASA anesthesia status I or II were admitted to the study. Subsequent to intranasal administration of midazolam, no patient rejected the nasal mask nor refused to inhale nitrous oxide/oxygen. The induction of nitrous oxide/oxygen sedation and oral examination were effected smoothly in every case in the two groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It is well known that systemically administered benzodiazepines (BZDs) induce anterograde amnesia in a variety of learning tasks. BZs effects are mediated through the GABAA complex by enhancing GABA-induced synaptic inhibition. As the GABAergic system in the amygdaloid complex (AC) is a site of action for the anxiolytic effects of BZs, such findings suggest that BZs may also influence memory through the amygdala. The present report summarizes a recent series of experiments designed to examine this implication. In a first experiment rats received either sham or bilateral AC lesion using N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA). One week later, animals were trained on an inhibitory avoidance task and tested 48 h later. Diazepam (DZP; 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle was injected 30 min prior to acquisition. The results demonstrate that DZP-induced retention deficits was blocked in rats with AC lesions. In a second experiment, in an attempt to localize the site of BZDs amnestic action in the AC, we tested the effects of DZP in rats with bilateral ibotenic acid-induced lesions of central (CE), lateral (LAT) or basolateral (BL) amygdala nuclei. The results shown that retention was impaired in animals with CE and LAT lesions but not in animals with BL lesions. In a third experiment we tested the effects of DZP microinjections in different nuclei of the AC on retention performance of rats trained in an avoidance task. The results demonstrate that DZP microinjection prior training in the BL/LAT, but not CE nuclei produce anterograde amnesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It is often necessary to adjust a patient's sedation level while they are in the intensive care unit. The purpose of this study was to compare propofol with midazolam for controlling short-term alterations in sedation. Twenty-three patients undergoing an interactive procedure, physiotherapy, during mechanical ventilation of the lungs were studied. The patients were randomly assigned to receive infusions of propofol or midazolam for sedation. Sedation was assessed using the method of Ramsay, where 3 is drowsy responding only to commands; and 5 is asleep with a slow response to light glabellar tap. Prior to physiotherapy sedation was deepened from 3 to 5 by increasing the sedative infusion rate, and level 5 was maintained during physiotherapy by adjusting the infusion rate whenever necessary. After physiotherapy, the sedative dose was reduced until level 3 was again achieved. During physiotherapy, sedation level 5 was achieved for 53.9% of the time with propofol but for only 25.7% with midazolam (P < 0.01). After physiotherapy, those patients sedated with propofol re-awakened to level 3 faster (8.3 +/- 2.3 min, mean +/- SE) than those receiving midazolam (92.8 +/- 35.0 min, P < 0.05). After physiotherapy, a further 1.8 +/- 0.5 dose adjustments were required to the midazolam infusion while only 0.4 +/- 0.2 adjustments were required to the propofol infusion (P < 0.05). During physiotherapy 3.0 +/- 0.5 dose adjustments to the propofol dose were required compared with 3.6 +/- 0.5 adjustments to the midazolam dose (NS).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To evaluate the effects on depressive mood of withdrawal of antihypertensive medication, we conducted a randomized, multi-center study with clinical centers at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, University of Alabama School of Medicine, Birmingham, and the University of Mississippi School of Medicine in Jackson. Patients were formerly active participants in the Hypertension Detection and Follow-Up Program (HDFP) whose blood pressure was controlled with drugs for a period of 5 years. Of 496 patients, 431 had both baseline and "1-year" mood scores. Patients, stratified by obesity, were randomized to one of three groups: continue the HDFP medication; discontinue medication with no dietary intervention, or with sodium restriction and potassium increase; or, for those overweight, to a weight reduction intervention. Depression was assessed using the CES-D scale (Center for Epidemiological Studies--Depressed Mood), administered at baseline and again approximately 1 year after randomization. Of the seven treatment groups, only those who continued their HDFP medication showed significant improvement in mood from baseline. The overweight continue-medication group showed significantly greater improvement compared to the no-drugs, no-diet intervention groups, and to the overweight sodium-restriction group. Patients who had their blood pressure successfully controlled with weight reduction had a significant improvement in mood from 11.0 scale points to 8.0, P = .006. Comparisons between those withdrawn from diuretic alone and those withdrawn from both diuretic plus reserpine were inconclusive. Dietary Intervention Study of Hypertension (DISH) shows no evidence that continued use of chlorthalidone has a negative impact on quality of life, while our results concerning reserpine were inconclusive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Autonomic nervous function in Tsukuba high (THE) and low (TLE) emotional rats as well as Wistar rats (control) was studied by means of electrocardiographical examination in addition to the runway test. In the runway test, locomotive activity differed significantly among the three strains, the greatest activity in TLE and the smallest in THE. Electrocardiogram (ECG) and locomotive activity were successively recorded for 24 hr using a small size of telemeter system. Though the locomotive activity showed a clear nocturnal rhythm, no significant difference was observed among the three strains. The mean value of R-R intervals in THE tended to be smaller than those in other two strains; showing a significant difference between THE and TLE. The mean value of standard deviation (SD) of R-R intervals in TLE tended to be larger than those in other two strains; showing a significant difference between TLE and Wistar in the light and dark periods, and also between TLE and THE in the light period. As regards coefficients of variation of R-R intervals (CV), there was no significant difference among the three strains. Autonomic nervous tone in THE and TLE was evaluated by means of autonomic blockades using atropine and/or propranolol. The sympathetic nervous tone represented 21.6% in THE and 16.8% in TLE, while the parasympathetic nervous tone -9.0% and -12.3% in THE and TLE, respectively. There was a significant difference in the net autonomic nervous tone between THE (10.7%) and TLE (-6.6%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This report examined first onset rates of 5 common pain symptoms and assessed, on a prospective basis, whether depressive symptoms at baseline were associated with onset risks. Adult Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) enrollees (n = 1016) were interviewed in 1986 about their history of each of 5 pain conditions (back pain, severe headache, chest pain, abdominal pain and temporomandibular disorder (TMD) pain). Three years later, this sample was re-interviewed (n = 803) to measure site-specific first onset rates. The Symptom Checklist 90-Revised (SCL-90-R) Depression scale was administered at baseline and at 3 year follow-up. Over the three year follow-up interval, rates of first onset were: 17.7% for back pain; 4.2% for severe headache; 3.0% for chest pain; 3.1% for abdominal pain; and 6.5% for TMD pain. Onset rates of persistent pain and of chronic pain dysfunction were substantially lower, but over 1% experienced onset of chronic pain dysfunction for back pain and for headache. There were not significant differences in onset rates of back pain, abdominal pain or TMD pain by severity or chronicity of depressive symptoms. Relative to the non-depressed, persons with moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were more likely to develop headache and chest pain (adjusted odds ratios of 1.7 to 5.0). For headache and chest pain, onset risks were highest among the chronically depressed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Although one of the first biological treatments of a major psychiatric disorder was the dietary treatment of pellagra, the use of diet and dietary components in the study of psychopathology has not aroused much interest. This article reviews three areas in which the dietary approach has provided interesting information. The tryptophan depletion strategy uses a mixture of amino acids devoid of tryptophan to lower brain tryptophan in order to study the symptoms that can be elicited. One effect of tryptophan depletion is a lowering of mood, the magnitude of which seems to depend on the baseline state of the subject. Therefore, recovered depressed patients often undergo an acute relapse, while normal subjects show more moderate changes of mood. Totally euthymic subjects show no lowering of mood, but subjects with high normal depression scale scores or subjects with a family history of depression show a moderate lowering of mood. These data indicate that low serotonin levels alone cannot cause depression. However, serotonin does have a direct effect on mood, and low levels of serotonin contribute to the etiology of depression in some depressed patients. Folic acid deficiency causes a lowering of brain serotonin in rats, and of cerebrospinal fluid 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in humans. There is a high incidence of folate deficiency in depression, and there are indications in the literature that some depressed patients who are folate deficient respond to folate administration. Folate deficiency is known to lower levels of S-adenosylmethionine, and S-adenosylmethionine is an antidepressant that raises brain serotonin levels. These data suggest that low levels of serotonin in some depressed patients may be a secondary consequence of low levels of S-adenosylmethionine. They also suggest that the dietary intake and psychopharmacological action of methionine, the precursor of S-adenosylmethionine, should be studied in patients with depression. Normal meals have definite effects on mood and performance in humans. The composition of the meal, in terms of protein and carbohydrate content, can influence these behaviors. Because protein and carbohydrate meals can influence brain serotonin in rats, these effects in humans have usually been interpreted in terms of altered serotonin functioning. However, the current balance of evidence is against the involvement of serotonin in the acute effects of protein and carbohydrate meals in humans. The underlying mechanisms involved are unknown, but there are a variety of possibilities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Cocaine (10 mg/kg), administered intraperitoneal (IP), was studied for its effects on dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) release in ventrolateral nucleus accumbens (vlNAcc) of conscious and behaving male, virus-free, Sprague-Dawley rats with in vivo electrochemistry (voltammetry). Miniature stearate probes detected DA and 5-HT release, on line and within a temporal resolution of seconds. Psychostimulant behaviors, in the form of four behavioral components (i.e., the classically DA-dependent behaviors of locomotor activity [ambulations], rearing, and stereotypy, and a 5-HT-ergic behavior, central ambulations) were studied concurrently with infrared photobeam detection. The results show that (IP) cocaine significantly increased vlNAcc DA release (p < 0.0001) and 5-HT release (p < 0.0012). Each of the four parameters of cocaine-induced psychostimulant behavior was concurrently and significantly increased as well (ambulations: p < 0.0001); rearing p < 0.0008; stereotypy: p < 0.0004; central ambulations: p < 0.0082). Moreover, exactly coincident data points for DA and 5-HT release occurred 10 and 40 min after (IP) cocaine administration. Cocaine-induced DA and 5-HT release were highly and positively correlated during the first hour of study (p < 0.01). As expected, increased DA release in vlNAcc after cocaine administration was significantly and positively correlated with classically DA-dependent behaviors (first- and second-hour effects) (p < 0.01) and with the 5-HT-ergic behavior, central ambulations (p < 0.01). Also, cocaine-induced 5-HT release was significantly and positively correlated with 5-HT behavior (p < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Both the human and animal literatures suggest that reactivity to stress is enhanced in the presence of a positive family history of hypertension. There is also some suggestive evidence, though not as strong, that a high-salt diet will enhance reactivity to stress, at least in a subpopulation of individuals. In the present study, rats with zero (Wistar-Kyoto, or WKY), one (borderline hypertensive, or BHR), or two (spontaneously hypertensive, or SHR) hypertensive parents were placed on a normal or high (8% in chow)-salt diet for 8 weeks starting at 8 weeks of age. After 6 weeks on the appropriate diet, rats were stressed daily for 5 days. Each session consisted of 28 foot shock trials preceded by a tone. On the following week, animals were instrumented with femoral artery catheters. After a 2-day recovery period, they were again subjected to the experimental paradigm, during which blood pressure was continuously monitored. Differences were found with respect to blood pressure reactivity and family history: SHR were the most reactive to the tone associated with foot shock. However, no effects of salt on reactivity were observed, despite an effect of this manipulation on basal blood pressure. The effect of foot shock itself was also studied, and revealed that BHR showed a blood pressure reactivity response intermediate between SHR and WKY. Once again, no effects of the salt manipulation were seen. In conclusion, while the data support a relationship between family history of hypertension and reactivity to stress, they do not support a relationship between salt intake and reactivity to stress.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To test the impact of joint impairment on ambulation in the elderly, using a multivariate model. Cross-sectional observational study (baseline data from an ongoing longitudinal study). Five hundred thirty-two persons over age 60, including continuing care retirement community (CCRC) (n = 222), homebound (n = 63), and ambulatory (n = 247) respondents. Mean age at assessment = 76.6 (SD = 6.6). Independent variables included sociodemographics, physician measures of lower joint impairment, an index of cormorbidities derived from physical examination or chart abstract, self-assessed arthritis pain, depression, and anxiety. The dependent variable, ambulation, was measured as walk-rate, based on the time required to walk 50 feet. For the total sample, 61% of the subjects were impaired in more than one lower joint group, with almost 50% of the homebound impaired in more than three joint groups. Demographics (particularly age and education) explained much of the variance in walk-rate. After controlling for demographics and membership in the groups purposely sampled (CCRC, homebound, ambulatory), lower joint impairment accounted for an additional 7% of the variance in walk-rate. Total amount of variance explained by the model was 56% (Adjusted R2 = .56). A 3-point change in lower joint impairment score, equivalent to the maximum impairment score for a single joint group, is associated with a 4-second change in the mean time required to walk 50 feet. The knee and lower spine joints contributed most to the impact of the lower joint impairment measure. Among the elderly, age and education are strong predictors of performance on a walk-rate test. Independent of demographics and non-musculoskeletal conditions, joint impairment is associated with diminished walking ability in this population.

The results from these and other studies provide an opportunity to critically re-examine the role of brain monoamine function in the pathophysiology of depression and the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs. The following observations are most salient: 1. Tryptophan depletion, which reduces brain serotonin function, reverses the therapeutic effects of specific serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) but not drugs which potently inhibit noradrenaline reuptake. In contrast, depletion of noradrenaline and dopamine, as a consequence of AMPT administration, reverses the remission induced by noradrenaline (desipramine) and dopamine (mazindol) reuptake inhibitors, but not SSRIs. These data suggest that the efficacy of antidepressant drugs may not be due to a common mechanism involving a single monoamine system. SSRIs and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors may work via primary actions on serotonin and noradrenaline function, respectively. Alternatively, these two classes of antidepressant drugs may exert their therapeutic properties by affecting the function of an, as yet, unknown neuronal system that is regulated by these monoamine systems; 2. In both drug-free depressed patients and healthy subjects, tryptophan depletion and AMPT do not produce marked alterations in depressed mood. These results suggest that alterations in serotonin, dopamine, and noradrenaline systems may not reflect the primary pathology causing depressive illness. An alternative explanation is that in depressed patients these systems are maximally dysfunctional such that further manipulations do not worsen depressive systems. 3. Clinical experience and the results from several controlled studies indicate that the efficacy of SSRIs and noradrenaline inhibiting drugs are approximately equal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Dumuis and colleagues (1988) in their investigation of a 5-HT receptor positively linked to adenylate cyclase in the central nervous system, concluded that the receptor was not 5-HT1, 5-HT2 or 5-HT3-like and suggested that it belonged to a new class of 5-HT receptor called 5-HT4. A similar, if not identical receptor was located by Craig and Clark (1990) in the guinea pig ileum and a functional role for the peripheral 5-HT4 receptor has since been established in many species to mediate muscle contraction or relaxation within the gut and positive inotropic effects in the heart. In contrast, a functional role for central 5-HT4 receptors has remained obscure. Using measurements of rodent behaviour in the mouse light and dark test box and rat social interaction, anxiolytic agents such as diazepam and putative anxiolytic agents such as the 5-HT1A and 5-HT3 receptor ligands 8-OH-DPAT and low doses of tropisetron release behaviour suppressed by the aversive situation. 5-Hydroxytryptophan has the opposite effect exacerbating the behavioural response to the aversive situation. But an anxiolytic profile is revealed by co-treatment with ritanserin plus 5-hydroxytryptophan. The drug-induced anxiolytic profiles are inhibited by SDZ205-557 and a high dose of tropisetron. Both compounds are 5-HT3/5-HT4 receptor antagonists yet the selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ondansetron fails to inhibit the drug-induced anxiolytic profiles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

"Fatigue and malaise" (FM) is a frequent, non-specific symptom of cancer patients caused by the disease, its treatment and psychological distress. Since comprehensive quality of life assessment is often not feasible in multicentre clinical trials, short, but clinically relevant, quality of life indicators have to be defined. In a representative subsample of 127 patients in a phase-III randomized small-cell lung cancer trial comparing two different regimens of combination chemotherapy, quality of life was assessed at the beginning of each of the six treatment cycles with a self-rating questionnaire including an early version of the EORTC questionnaire, a mood adjective check list (Bf-S) and a single linear-analogue self-assessment scale (LASA) measuring general well-being. FM, measured with a five-item Likert subscale of the EORTC questionnaire, showed moderate to high intercorrelations with other EORTC subscales assessing disease symptoms, toxicity of treatment, role functioning, personal functioning, restriction of social activity, psychological distress, emotional (Bf-S) and general well-being (LASA). At baseline, FM was one of the most pronounced symptoms. Over the six cycles 43%-31% of the patients complained of moderate to severe fatigue. Over the first two cycles FM tended to decrease, slightly increasing during cycles 3 and 4 and decreasing again before cycle 6. In a multiple regression analysis over the six cycles, 53% of the variance of FM was explained by patient-rated symptoms of disease and toxicity (disease alone: 43%; toxicity alone: 35%). Initial performance status, previous weight loss, treatment arm, cycle number and age predicted the scores of FM over the six cycles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Quality-of-life (QOL) in patients with respiratory illness is a topic of increasing interest to clinicians and researchers. In a multicentre trial, which studies the long-term effects of three medication regimens (beta-agonist plus either placebo, anticholinergic agent or corticosteroid, all by inhalation) in patients with chronic nonspecific lung disease ((CNSLD): asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)), quality-of-life was included as an additional outcome measure. We wanted to provide a baseline assessment of quality-of-life in 274 adult patients with a mild to moderate degree of CNSLD. Quality-of-life was measured using a set of six standardized tests: Anxiety, Depression and Sleep Disorders, Optimism and Stigma, and Activities of Daily Living were assessed via scales with adequate validity and reliability, as established in previous work in Dutch patients with CNSLD. We found that quality-of-life was mildly impaired in these patients. Although differences with a reference group were present throughout, these were not significant, probably due to selection of relatively young, clinically stable, and highly motivated patients for our study. Quality-of-life scores showed higher correlation coefficients (0.20 < r < 0.38) to symptom scores than did results of pulmonary function tests (r < 0.015). In logistic regression models, absence from work and hospitalizations due to CNSLD were partly determined by quality-of-life scores.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The aim of the present study was to determine whether the ability to suppress cough voluntarily is an index of cough severity in upper respiratory tract infection. Cough was measured by means of a microphone linked to a pen recorder and subjects were instructed to voluntarily suppress cough in order to determine cough suppression time. Subjective scores of symptom severity, mood and psychological parameters were made prior to cough measurements. The baseline frequency of cough showed a distribution towards the higher frequencies, with a median of 2.1 (lower quartile 1.2, upper quartile 3.2) coughs.min-1. The results for cough suppression fell into two distinct groups, one group reaching a breaking point within 12.6 min; and another group which did not cough during the 20 min cough suppression period. In the group of subjects which broke from the cough suppression, there was an inverse relationship between the cough suppression time and the baseline frequency of cough. The median frequency of cough following cough suppression was significantly greater than the baseline median frequency of cough. The subjects who reached a breaking point had a greater baseline frequency of cough and a greater symptom severity score, and they also felt more feeble, clumsy, sad and antagonistic than the group which did not reach a breaking point. The subjects who reached a breaking point had significantly greater scores for the psychology parameter of obsessional symptoms than the group which did not reach a breaking point.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It has been suggested that obese children have increased problems with self-esteem and depression when compared to the normal pediatric population. Fifty-one consecutive patients enrolled in a hospital based weight management program received the CDI and the PHSCS as part of their initial evaluation. There were 24 males and 27 females with ages ranging from 5-17 years and BMI (kg/m2) of 22-63 (mean 33.3). Results of the CDI were classified into three groups. Children with CDI scores greater than 13 were classified as depressed (n = 16). Scores between 9 and 12 were considered borderline depression (n = 11). Scores less than 9 were considered normal (n = 24). The children in the depressed and borderline groups were significantly different from the children in the normal group in their level of self-esteem. As depression increased, self-esteem decreased, indicating an inverse relationship between self-esteem and depression. Depressed and borderline depressed children were also more anxious (i.e., nervous, worried) and had more perceived behavior problems (increased frequency of punishment, difficulty obeying orders) than the normal group. They also had fewer interests in school and felt their physical appearance was not acceptable. The depressed group's scores were significantly lower on the happiness and popularity scales of the PHSCS than the normal group. Scores on the CDI did not correlate with age, race, sex, Tanner stage, socioeconomic status, or body mass index. In this study obese pediatric patients showed significant depression and lowered self-esteem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that a major excitatory mechanism for the expression of feline defensive rage behavior involves the medial nucleus of the amygdala which utilizes substance P as a neurotransmitter in a direct output pathway that supplies the medial hypothalamus. In phase I of the experiment, stimulating electrodes were implanted into the medial amygdala and cannula electrodes were implanted into the medial and lateral hypothalamus from which defensive rage and predatory attack behavior could be elicited by electrical stimulation, respectively. Response latencies for defensive rage were significantly lowered after dual stimulation of the medial amygdala and medial hypothalamus relative to single stimulation of the medial hypothalamus alone. In phase II, dose- and time-dependent decreases in medial amygdaloid-induced facilitation of defensive rage were observed after the i.p. administration of the NK1 antagonist, CP-96,345 (0.05, 2 and 4 mg/kg). In phase III of the study, the effects of microinjections of CP-96,345 placed directly into defensive rage sites within the medial hypothalamus (0.05, 0.5 and 2.5 nmol) upon medial amygdaloid modulation of this response were assessed. Again, intracerebral administration of this antagonist blocked the facilitatory effects of medial amygdaloid-induced facilitation of defensive rage in a manner parallel to that observed with peripheral administration of the NK1 antagonist. The results suggest that the medial amygdala facilitates defensive rage by acting through a substance P mechanism at the level of the medial hypothalamus. Other experiments revealed that peripheral administration of the NK1 antagonist: (1) had little upon the latency or threshold for elicitation of defensive rage, suggesting that the medial amygdaloid-substance P facilitatory mechanism acts in a phasic rather than tonic manner; and (2) also blocks the suppressive effects of medial amygdaloid stimulation upon predatory attack behavior elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. The latter finding suggest that similar neurochemical mechanisms regulate medial amygdaloid modulation of both forms of hypothalamically elicited aggression. The final aspect of this study utilized the combination of retrograde-tracing of amygdaloid neurons into the medial hypothalamus after microinjections of Fluoro-Gold into defensive rage sites, and the immunocytochemical analysis of substance P neurons within the amygdala. The data indicated that large numbers of retrogradely and immunocytochemically positive labeled cells were identified in the medial nucleus, including many that were double-labeled.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Cannabinoid consumption has been reported to affect several neurotransmitter systems and their related behaviors. The present study has been designed to examine cannabinoid effects on certain behaviors, which have been currently located in the limbic forebrain, in parallel to their effects on mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons. To this end, male rats treated with an oral dose of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or vehicle were used 1 h after treatment for two different behavioral tests or neurochemical analyses of mesolimbic dopaminergic activity. Treatments, behavioral tests and sacrifice were performed in the dark phase of photoperiod because it corresponds to the maximum behavioral expression in the rat. Behavioral tests were a dark-light emergence test, which allows measurements of emotional reactivity, and a socio-sexual approach behavior test, which allows measurements of sexual motivation and also of spontaneous and stereotypic activities. Neurochemical analyses consisted of measurements of dopamine (DA) and L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) contents, tyrosine hydroxylase activity, in vitro DA release and number and affinity of D1 receptors in the limbic forebrain. Results were as follows. THC exposure markedly altered the pattern executed by the animals in both tests. Concretely, THC-exposed animals exhibited a low number of visits to an incentive female in addition to high time spent in the vicinity of an incentive male, both observed in the socio-sexual approach behavior test, and an increased emergence latency to go out of a dark compartment in the dark-light emergence test. However, the fact that THC also decreased spontaneous activity and the frequency of rearing and self-grooming behaviors, in addition to the observations of either low total number of visits to both incentive sexual areas or high escape latency to go out of a light compartment, when the animal is placed in this compartment, also suggest the possible existence of an accompanying motor deficit. These behavioral effects were accompanied by increases in DA and DOPAC contents and in D1 receptor density in the limbic forebrain and to a slight decrease in the pattern of K(+)-evoked DA release in vitro from perifused limbic fragments, with no changes in the remaining neurochemical parameters. Collectively, these results allow us to conclude that acute THC markedly altered the behavioral pattern executed by the animals in a socio-sexual approach behavior test and in a dark-light emergence test, presumably indicating loss of sexual motivation and increased emotionality, although also accompanied by motor deficiencies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Depression is a highly prevalent disorder that causes much personal distress and difficulties in functioning at home and in the workplace. In the workplace, as elsewhere, depression can manifest as a variation in normal mood, as a symptom, as a disorder, or as a disease. Occupational health professionals are more concerned with clinical depression, a term used to signify any type of depression that causes significant personal distress and/or problems in functioning. Clinical depression is manifest in the workplace and adversely affects the employee's work satisfaction and performance. For most types of depression, women are at a higher risk than men. A number of events and variables related to women and depression were reviewed. Although the effects of some of these events, such as menopause, can be manifest in the workplace, they are not associated with an increased incidence of clinical depression. Other events, such as victimization (e.g., childhood sexual abuse or battering by an intimate partner), are associated with higher risks of depression in women. Women derive substantial satisfaction from interpersonal relationships but also are at greater risk for depression when strains and conflicts in these relationships occur. In the workplace women who have no difficulty in arranging for child care and whose spouses share in the care of children show lower rates of depression. When marriages are unhappy, women are three times as likely as men to be depressed. These findings speak to the importance of relationships to women. In the workplace, when women are depressed, problems with relationships are likely to be involved. Clinically depressed women are not difficult to identify in work settings. Dejected mood and loss of interest in usual activities are noticeable, along with numerous other symptoms that accompany depression. The effective treatment of depression depends on careful diagnosis and assessment. Both drug therapy and the more structured psychotherapies, such as cognitive-behavioral and interpersonal therapy, have demonstrated effectiveness in treating depression. For mild depression, pharmacotherapy is likely to be the treatment of choice. In cases in which the depressive symptomatology is moderate to severe, a combination of drug therapy and psychotherapy is likely to be the most effective treatment and to provide the best prophylaxis. Drug therapy seems particularly effective in promoting rapid reduction of vegetative and physical symptoms. Psychotherapy enhances coping skills at home and at work and also focuses on problem-solving, relationship difficulties, and dealing with stressors. In the area of prevention, occupational health practitioners currently can have the greatest impact in secondary prevention.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Emotional stress (ES) has been proposed as a possible factor in the pathogenesis of duodenal ulcer (DU) disease. Modern, well-controlled studies on the effect of ES on gastric acid secretion (GAS) in both normal healthy subjects and patients with inactive DU are lacking. Ten normal (N) men and 10 men with inactive DU were observed on 2 separate days. In random order, subjects either underwent dichotomous listening (DL) to induce stress or a control (non-DL) test. In addition to measuring GAS in 15-min periods, heart rate and blood pressure were measured every 7.5 min, and visual analog scale measures of emotion (relaxation, anxiety, anger, tension, and depression) were monitored. Subjects underwent 2 separate study days, 1 h of a basal period followed by 1 h of a DL session or 1 h of a basal period followed by 1 h of a non-DL control session; the order of the days was randomized. In both N and DU emotional stress by DL induced these parameters significantly: increased heart rate; raised systolic and diastolic blood pressures (p < 0.01); increased anxiety, anger, and tension (p < 0.03); and decreased relaxation (p < 0.01). The non-DL control test did not alter cardiovascular or emotion measures in either group. While ES did not alter GAS in N subjects, ES increased GAS when compared to the basal state (p < 0.02) and when compared to the control test (p = 0.07).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Nutritional effects have traditionally focused on outcomes, such as nitrogen balance, wound healing, or muscle strength. Little emphasis has been placed on how biochemical or physical improvements translate into functional changes as perceived by the patient. Because glutamine (GLN)-supplemented nutrition promotes protein synthesis and improves nitrogen balance, we assessed the mood of individuals participating in a randomized controlled blinded trial receiving GLN solutions. Patients (n = 23) undergoing marrow transplantation were randomized by the research pharmacist to receive either standard total parenteral nutrition (TPN) (control) or GLN-containing TPN (40 g of glutamine total). The solutions were isocaloric and isonitrogenous and were administered until the patient was eating 50% of estimated requirements. Before TPN and on admission to the hospital, the patient completed the Profile of Mood States questionnaire, a standardized test quantifying the degree of tension, depression, anger, vigor, fatigue, and confusion. The patient completed the questionnaire again at the end of TPN near discharge. The tests were scored and the change from baseline for each mood for both groups of patients was calculated at the completion of TPN. The scores for vigor in the control group (delta scores) decreased over the course of hospitalization as would be expected with a serious illness. The group receiving glutamine TPN, however, essentially showed little change in vigor from baseline and the delta score was significantly different from the control group (delta vigor score -0.85 +/- 2.1 in the glutamine group vs. -5.90 +/- 1.7 in the control group; p = .07).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study was done for the purpose of analyzing the job-satisfaction and its depressive factors in human relation of operating room nurses of university hospital. Therefore, it makes an offer the basic data to help the resolution and prevention of the problems in operating room nurses. Furthermore, this study was conducted in order to find out some kinds of scientific data for the better control of depressive factors of job-satisfaction expressed by the operating room nurses. The structured questionnaire reports of 246 operating room nurses who were employed in 5 different university hospitals which have over 1,000 beds located in Seoul, Korea were used, which wer collected from August 24th to August 30th of 1992. The author visited supervisors of operating room in each university hospital and explained the aim of this study. The most of them (90.0%) answered to the questionnaires. Analysis of the collected data were done by mean, standard deviation, percentage, t-test, F-test, Q-test, correlation analysis, one-way ANOVA, and stepwise multiple regression analysis. Major findings of this study were as follows: 1. The job of the operating room nurses were remarkably related with the satisfaction in human relation, which was defined as the behavioral job with thoughtful action rather than with mechanical action. However, the degree of satisfaction in human relation with personnel in other departments was found to be the lowest and its the main depressive factors were appeared due to the absence of interaction and uncooperative attitudes. Therefore, it was required that the members of other job need more cooperative attitude to the actual works in the operating room nurses. 2. The depressive factors in the satisfaction degree of human relation with official seniors wer significantly related with their irresponsibility and partialness. Moreover, the job attitude of the operating room nurses is abundantly required to be improved. 3. The depressive factors in the satisfaction of human relation with medical doctors were significantly related with their insincerity and the class-consciousness. It is clearly suggested that the medical doctors do more cooperative behaviors for the jobs of the operating room without the suggested that the medical doctors do more cooperative behaviors for the jobs of the operating room without the superiority feeling of class-consciousness. 4. There was a significantly positive association between the satisfaction degree of human relation of the nurses with the following characteristics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Three hundred and fifty-nine US Marines participated in a randomized double-blind clinical trial to assess tolerance of two prophylactic mefloquine regimens [250 mg salt weekly (n = 157) or 250 mg daily for 3 days followed by 250 mg weekly (n = 46)] compared with 300 mg weekly chloroquine (n = 156) over a 12-week period. The study participants were seen daily for four days, then weekly for 11 weeks. On each visit, the subject answered two computerized questionnaires (a review of body systems and an evaluation of mood states), participated in a physician interview, and was administered medications under supervision. A random sample of each group was assigned to either pharmacokinetic sampling or two wear a wrist watch size computerized sleep monitor (actigraph). The frequencies of intercurrent illness and other concomitant medications were tabulated. End study mefloquine plasma levels were obtained on all study participants. The results obtained showed no compromise in function due to dizziness or incoordination in the mefloquine groups. Overall, both weekly mefloquine and loading dose mefloquine were well tolerated. Sleep disturbance and increased dream activity were detected in the mefloquine groups. Depressive feelings were noted in two to three times more individuals in the mefloquine groups than in the chloroquine group early in the course of the study, and resolved in the majority of subjects as tolerance developed. Steady state mefloquine plasma levels were attained rapidly with the loading dose regimen in four days versus seven weeks with weekly mefloquine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The pineal hormone melatonin plays a role in the regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary axis, target gland function, sleep pattern, mood changes, cellular immunity, antibody response, and skin pigmentation, nearly all of which are also affected by renal insufficiency. We measured serum melatonin and its main urinary metabolite, 6-sulfatoxymelatonin (6-SM), by radioimmunoassay in 11 patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) between the hours of 6 and 9 a.m. during hemodialysis and again on an off-dialysis day. The results were compared with those obtained in a group of normal control subjects. Predialysis serum melatonin and 6-SM levels obtained at 6 a.m. in the ESRD patients were comparable with those obtained in the normal control group. Serum melatonin concentration in the ESRD group fell approximately 25% during dialysis while 6-SM remained virtually unchanged. The changes observed on the off-dialysis day during the same time period were of nearly the same magnitude as those seen during dialysis (-32% and 1.4%, respectively). No significant difference was found in the concentration of either analyte in the blood entering and leaving the dialyzer. These observations suggest a lack of discernible removal of either compound by hemodialysis. In contrast to the ESRD patients, who showed a slow fall in serum melatonin and no significant change in serum 6-SM on both on- and off-dialysis days, the normal control subjects showed an expected reduction in serum melatonin (-43%) and a sharp fall in serum 6-SM (-53%) between 6 and 9 a.m.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Both the late complications of diabetes and the means used to prevent them have a significant impact on the lives of people with the condition. Measuring quality of life is therefore important in assessing clinical need and evaluating the success of management. Three approaches to measuring health status were therefore compared in 284 randomly selected out-patients attending a hospital diabetes service. The measures used were the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP), four categories of an anglicized version of the Sickness Impact Profile (the Functional Limitations Profile (FLP)), and a scale of Positive Well-being (PWB). The results were found to be independent of questionnaire order and place of completion. The distributions of scores on the NHP and FLP scales were highly skewed, with a majority of cases scoring zero. NHP and FLP scores were related (p < 0.001) to age, but not otherwise to type of diabetes. Patients with angina, circulatory problems, and neuropathy scored significantly higher (up to p < 0.001) on several dimensions/categories of the NHP and FLP, but not the PWB scale. Severe visual impairment (worse than 6/36) was only related (p < 0.005) to NHP 'Mobility' and FLP 'Ambulation' and 'Home management'. Validation of scores by interview gave satisfactory results on all dimensions of the NHP except 'Energy', and all FLP categories except 'Recreations and pastimes'. No statistically significant association was observed between the PWB and the interviewer's assessments, but it did correlate (up to tau = 0.45, p < 0.001) with some social and psychological dimensions/categories of the NHP/FLP. In conclusion the PWB scale is independent of physical disability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Rats were tested in the forced swim test to evaluate the effects of duration of exposure (0, 5, 15, or 25 min), and water temperature (0, 35, 30, 25, or 20 degrees C), on a variety of physiological measures. Serum corticosterone, glucose, lactate, phosphorus levels, and the anion gap (a measure of acid-base status) were increased significantly, whereas carbon dioxide and potassium levels were consistently decreased by testing, as was the potassium/phosphorus ratio; creatinine, triglycerides, and magnesium were not altered significantly in any study. Effects on prolactin, amylase, lipase, cholesterol, alkaline phosphatase, sodium, and chloride were inconsistent. Levels of serum corticosterone were increased at each duration of testing, and the increments were significantly higher than the previous duration. Corticosterone levels were also increased in proportion to decreasing water temperature, but the increments were not significantly different from the previous or following temperatures. Glucose levels were increased at every duration and at every water temperature with the exception of the coldest water temperature. Lactate and phosphorus levels and the anion gap were all increased, whereas carbon dioxide levels decreased after 5 min of immersion. Potassium levels did not decrease until some time after 5 min of testing. Immobility times were marginally correlated with corticosterone levels (r = -0.38) but were highly correlated with serum carbon dioxide (r = 0.59), potassium (r = 0.67), and phosphorus levels (r = -0.73); the correlation between immobility times and the ratio of potassium/phosphorus was 0.82. The potassium/phosphorus ratio accounted for 67% of the variance in immobility. These high correlations were interpreted in terms of acid-base changes associated with testing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Depression and an ability to cope with stress are suggested to play a role in the vulnerability to breast cancer. In rats, neonatal clomipramine administration induces subsequent behavioral abnormalities that closely resemble those seen in human endogenous depression. Early postnatal handling, on the other hand, improves subsequent ability to cope with stress in rodents. The present study examined whether early clomipramine treatment or handling influences the growth of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumors in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Between postnatal days 5 and 20, rat pups were injected daily with 25 mg/kg clomipramine, handled either by holding them in a hand (H-handling) or by giving them a saline injection (I-handling), or left nonhandled. During these manipulations, but not later, body weight gain was lower in the I-handled and clomipramine-treated pups than in the H-handled rats. As adults, the time spent immobile in the swim test, a model of depressive behavior and an ability to cope with stress, was significantly lengthened in the clomipramine-treated female rats, and shortened in the handled females. Measurement of plasma 17-beta-estradiol (E2) did not reveal any significant differences between the groups. The percentage of animals developing mammary tumors was significantly higher, and the length of survival shorter among the clomipramine-treated rats than among the I-handled rats. However, both groups exhibited less tumors and longer survival than the nonhandled controls. There were no differences in mammary tumor incidence or survival between the nonhandled and H-handled rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This article reports on four studies regarding the development, reliability, and validity of scales to measure two forms of anxiety, ego anxiety and discomfort anxiety. In the first study 140 undergraduates completed fourteen items related to ego anxiety and discomfort anxiety, as well as the Self-esteem Scale, the IPAT Anxiety Scale, and the Hopelessness Scale. Principal component analyses produced two factors, each with five items that showed differentiation between ego anxiety and discomfort anxiety. Guttman scales were developed from the items in the two factors. The resulting Ego Anxiety Scale had a coefficient of reproducibility of .94, a coefficient of scalability of .67 and estimated scale reliability of .84. The Discomfort Anxiety Scale had a coefficient of reproducibility of .91, a coefficient of scalability of .65 and estimated scale reliability of .83. Significant relationships were found between the scores on the two anxiety scales and scores on the Self-esteem Scale and the IPAT. Correlations between scores on the new anxiety scales and scores on the Hopelessness Scale were not significant. In the second study, undergraduates completed the Ego and Discomfort Anxiety Scales, the Self-esteem Scale, the IPAT Anxiety Scale, and the Hopelessness Scale. The reliability of the Ego Anxiety Scale (0.77) and the Discomfort Anxiety Scale (0.85) was estimated using Cronbach's alpha measure. t tests for scores of independent samples for students in Studies I and II were completed for scores on the Ego and Discomfort Anxiety Scales, Self-esteem Scale, IPAT Anxiety Scale, and Hopelessness Scale. None of these test comparisons were significant. The data from Studies I and II were pooled to provide tentative normative data for the Ego and Discomfort Anxiety Scales. The third study explored the reliability and validity of the new scales, testing 79 undergraduates who completed the Ego and Discomfort Anxiety Scales, the Fear of Negative Evaluation Scale, and the Problem Solving Inventory. The reliability coefficients of the Ego Anxiety Scale and Discomfort Anxiety Scale were 0.75 and 0.82, respectively. The differences between the combined scores of subjects in Studies I and II and the scores of subjects in the third study on the Ego and the Discomfort Anxiety Scale were not significant. A significant positive correlation, however, was found between scores on the Ego Anxiety Scale and scores on the Fear of Negative Evaluation Scale.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Over the past 15 years, psychologists have empirically investigated how people perceive technological, consumer, and natural hazards. The psychometric-attitudes to risk being summarized by three factors: "dread," whether the risk is known, and personal exposure to the risk. The results have been used to suggest that certain types of hazards are viewed very differently from other hazards. The purpose of this paper is somewhat different, in that it investigates whether individual demographic characteristics influence psychometric perceptions of risk. This paper makes use of a large, professionally conducted, survey of a wide cross-section of the residents of metropolitan Chicago. One thousand adults were interviewed in a random-digit dial telephone survey, producing a useable dataset of about 800. Data on the three risk factors mentioned above were obtained on 7-point scales for four common hazards: aviation accidents, fires in the home, automobile accidents, and stomach cancer. The survey also collected demographic data on respondents' age, schooling, income, sex, and race. Regressions were then conducted to relate the demographic characteristics to risk perceptions. Some strong general conclusions can be drawn. The results suggest that women, people with lower levels of schooling and income, younger people, and blacks have more dread of hazards. The exception being age-related illnesses which, not unnaturally, are feared by older people. Unlike previous literature, we cannot substantiate the argument that these groups of people are less informed about hazards and thus less accepting of them. The most likely leading explanation of the relationship between demographic factors and dread of a hazard is the perceived personal exposure to the hazard.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It has recently been questioned whether borderline hypertension (BH) is a reality or just an artefact due to the person's knowledge of his or her raised blood pressure. This issue was evaluated by measuring ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) in subjects with BH, compared to normotensive individuals (NC). In particular, we wanted to investigate whether the basal blood pressure levels during sleep at night were elevated in BH subjects, or whether these individuals would normalize blood pressure during periods of low psychological arousal. Twenty-four-hour ABP was measured using the Spacelabs monitor 90202. Forty-nine BH subjects (systolic blood pressure [SBP] 140 to 160 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 85 to 95 mm Hg) and 18 NC (SBP 110 to 130 mm Hg and DBP 60 to 80 mm Hg) were recruited from an unbiased population sample (age 20 to 28 years). The classification of BH and NC, respectively, was confirmed by intraarterial BP recordings. There was the expected variation of blood pressure throughout the 24 h (the highest values in the afternoon and lowest at night). SBP was significantly higher in the BH than in the NC group for the entire 24 h as well as during the four 6-h periods (morning P = .007, afternoon P < .001, evening P < .001, and night P = .025). A smaller but significant difference between the groups was seen for DBP but only in the afternoon and in the evening (morning P = .167, afternoon P = .022, evening P = .038, night P = .310).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The most frequent type of behavior problem in cats for which veterinary consultation is sought is problem urination. Urine spraying and urine marking have been treated by use of long-acting progestins and diazepam, a benzodiazepine antianxiety drug. Effectiveness of the nonbenzodiazepine antianxiety drug, buspirone, in suppressing urine spraying and marking in 47 male and 15 female cats was evaluated. The effect of the drug in correcting inappropriate urination in 9 cats also was evaluated. Buspirone resulted in a favorable response (> 75% reduction) in 55% of cats treated for urine spraying or marking. There was no sex difference in effectiveness of the treatment, but cats from single-cat households responded favorably significantly (P < 0.001) less frequently than those from multiple-cat households. The 55% response rate was within the range of treatment effectiveness that has been reported for diazepam, and was greater than that reported for progestin. In contrast to diazepam, with which over 90% of treated cats resumed spraying or marking when the drug was gradually discontinued, only half of the cats treated with buspirone resumed spraying when the drug was discontinued after 2 months of treatment (P < 0.001). This difference between diazepam and buspirone in resumption of urine spraying was attributed to diazepam's induction of physiologic and behavioral dependency, not found with buspirone. Cats that resumed spraying were placed on long-term treatment ranging from 6 to 18 months. Buspirone also did not cause the adverse effects of sedation and ataxia, which commonly are seen with diazepam treatment. In cats treated for inappropriate urination, 56% returned to normal litter box usage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

During recent decades, treatment of death has been removed from the family and placed in the hands of experts and specialized institutions. More and more people die outside their homes. Our statistical analysis shows that in Switzerland between 1969 and 1986 the old people's home has replaced the private home. However the proportion of people dying in the hospital (55%) has not changed. Proceeding from these facts, we conducted a sociological research project with participant observation that explored attitudes, strategies and practices of professionals who deal closely with death and dying. Our case studies involved people working on the wards of a hospital, in a hospital mortuary, in an old people's home, in an autopsy department, in a funeral home and in a cemetery. The analysis showed that in the context of preservation of life (hospital), the consciously maintained attitude is ambivalence and an openness to various outcomes. In the context of applied science (autopsy department), the attitude is search for unequivocal exactness. In the context of loss (funeral home, cemetery), we find two different orientations among two different groups of actors. Those who deal with the practical side of death, such as the crematorium attendant, show a technical orientation, while those who deal with death's non-practical side, such as the minister, show a social and a symbolic orientation. At the points of intersection between these contexts, the actors develop complex strategies: maintenance of the past, negation of the present and anticipation of the future. (1.) The fight against death in the university hospital is being more and more replaced by the development of a strategy of openness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The current study used multidimensional clustering to delineate empirically subgroups of chronic pain patients and to compare their responses to interdisciplinary pain rehabilitation. A total of 180 chronic pain patients were used as subjects. They were administered the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP), Medical Examination and Diagnostic Information Coding System (MEDICS) and treatment outcome measures including subjective pain intensity, hours standing and walking, medication usage and work status. All subjects then participated in an outpatient interdisciplinary pain rehabilitation program, with 120 being randomly selected and 90 available for follow-up assessment. Multidimensional cluster analyses using SIP and MEDICS data identified 4 replicable subgroups: cluster A--highly dysfunctional with moderate levels of physical pathology; cluster B--moderately dysfunctional with moderate levels of physical pathology; cluster C--highly functional with low levels of physical pathology; and cluster D--highly dysfunctional with low levels of physical pathology. Cluster-A and -D patients showed significantly higher levels of depression, more medication usage, less activity and were less likely to be working at pretreatment. These 2 clusters also showed the largest improvement in subjective pain intensity, medication usage, activity level, and return to work post-treatment. Patients in cluster B exhibited the least amount of improvement across outcome measures and, unlike the other 3 clusters, failed to show any significant improvement in work status at post-treatment. Cluster differences were not primarily a function of age, sex, pain intensity, pain location, pain duration, or depression. It was concluded that useful subgroups of chronic pain patients could be reliably identified through multidimensional clustering.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This presentation addresses the capability of Croatian refugees from Baranja to acclimatize themselves in the Republic of Hungary. The authors assessed the mental health of 100 refugees through a psychiatric interview using a questionnaire, specifically designed for the purpose of this research. Their ages ranged from 10 to 82 years, average age 38 years. The assessment of mental health of the refugees was conducted 6 weeks following their placement in a camp (social institution) of a small town (Maria Jüd) in Hungary. The authors found that refugees fled their homes and homeland in front of barbarous combined forces of local Serbs whom they identified as terrorists and Yugoslav Federal Army. Leaving homes and country was sudden and unexpected, but by their own will. The departure was accompanied by fear, anxiety, disbelief, despair, anger and rarely by panic behaviour. Fear for children's safety was on the first place, than fear from exposure to violent injury--torture and crippling, while threat for ones own life and life of relatives as well as loss of property were of milder intensity. Among the most dominant feelings refugees manifested during an interview were: home--and homeland sickness and uncertainty about the future. In 61% of the examinees, these feelings prevailed. Forty-two per cent of the subjects experienced emotional and psychosomatic disorders, primarily Beard's "neurasthenic syndrome". Only 5% of the refugees needed psychiatric help, mainly those who had psychic problems before they fled their homes. The authors conclude that Croats from Baranja who took refuge in Hungary had acclimatizational problems even 6 weeks after displacement, which were manifested as emotional and psychosomatic reactions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In a group of 74 patients with irritable colon syndrome (ICS) the studies were carried out evaluating the participation of early allergic reaction to meals, depression, and indices of immune response in the aetiology and pathogenesis of this syndrome. An attempt was also undertaken at evaluation of the influence of depression on the immune system functions in these patients. Clinical reactions after meals were reported by 89% of the studied patients with ICS, and in 8% of these patients it was recognized that early allergic reaction to meals had been the pathological mechanism responsible for the observed reactions. The intensity of depression and the per cent of patients with depression were statistically higher in patients with ICS as compared with persons in the control group. The number of Ea rosette forming T-cells was decreased in patients with ICS significantly in comparison to controls. The numbers of T- and B-cells were decreased statistically significantly in patients with depression intensity of 50 and over 50 points as compared with those without depression. In certain patients other immunological abnormalities were also found, such as decreased serum IgA level combined with absence of that Ig in the large bowel mucosa. The studies carried out suggest the statement that abnormal reactions after meal are common in patients with ICS and the participation of type I allergy according to Gell and Coombs in these reactions has been shown in 8% of the studied patients, and that the participation of psychopathological changes should be considered in the aetiology and pathogenesis of this syndrome.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The octapeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) is one of the most abundant neuropeptides of the central nervous system. A number of features (for instance heterogeneity of the regional distribution, subcellular localization at the nerve terminal level, calcium-dependent release upon nervous tissue depolarization) support the candidacy of CCK as a neurotransmitter. The reported co-existence of CCK and dopamine in some meso-limbic neurons has led to speculation that the neuropeptide may interact with the catecholamine in neuropsychopathologies linked to dopamine dysfunctions, like schizophrenia. Data from the experimental animals have so far generated conflicting results. It should be noted that the interactions between CCK and dopamine, and, in particular, the effects of CCK and dopamine on each other release, both in vitro and in vivo, have been poorly investigated and would require special attention. Evidence is accumulating that CCK may participate in the expression of anxiety. Indeed antagonists at the central CCK receptors exhibit anxiolytic activity in the laboratory animal. An interesting linkage appears to exist in the brain between 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and CCK. Activation of 5-HT3 receptors was found to increase CCK release from rat cortical or nucleus accumbens synaptosomes. Interestingly, antagonists at 5-HT3 receptors appear to possess anxiolytic activity. Recent studies carried out in conscious unrestrained rats show that the calcium-dependent, tetrodotoxin-sensitive release of CCK-like immunoreactivity evoked in the rat frontal cortex by veratrine infusion can be inhibited by submicromolar concentrations of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study examined the relationship between adverse reactions and patient compliance with ethinylestradiol at 40 micrograms twice daily versus 20 micrograms four times daily. In a randomized study 61 female patients with primary infertility were prescribed the drug twice daily (n = 31) or four times daily (n = 30). Ethinylestradiol was administered for 7 days before the sperm cervical mucus penetration-test was performed for hormonal standardization of the cervical mucus quality. Drug compliance was measured by continuous monitoring using the Medication Event Monitoring System. Two parameters were evaluated: percentage of prescribed doses taken (administration compliance) and adherence to the prescribed dose schedule (regimen compliance, number of days with two or four dosing events recorded). Adverse drug reactions were assessed using a standardized questionnaire. Fourty-four women experienced side effects, of which 81% were rated by patients as being mild. Patient compliance was higher with the twice daily than with the four times daily regimen: 85% versus 65% prescribed doses taken (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in compliance comparing patients with and without adverse reactions (82% versus 72%, respectively), but compliance was lower and more irregular with at least 3 versus one or two adverse reactions reported: 54% versus 84% in administration compliance and 31% versus 58% in regimen compliance (P < 0.05). Compliance was also lower in patients with nausea and vomiting than in those without these symptoms, 59% versus 91% and 34% versus 66% (P < 0.005), respectively, and lower with moderate or severe compared to mild side effects; 48% versus 85% and 25% versus 59% (P < 0.005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Tolerance to subjective effects of nicotine may induce novice smokers to increase the magnitude and frequency of their nicotine self-dosing. In this study, smokers (n = 8) and nonsmokers (n = 7) participated in three sessions involving presentation of 0, 7.5, or 15 micrograms/kg nicotine 30 min for 2 h via measured-dose nasal spray, with different doses presented on separate days. Subjective responses were assessed using visual analog scales (VASs) of jittery, light-headed, relaxed, dizzy, and head rush, and the Profile of Mood States (POMS) scales of vigor, confusion, fatigue, tension, and the composite scale of arousal. Smaller responses in smokers vs. nonsmokers were viewed as evidence for chronic tolerance. In addition, on each day subjects received a fifth, challenge dose of 30 micrograms/kg 30 min after the previous dosing. Smaller responses to the challenge dose as a function of increasing prior nicotine dosing during Trials 1-4 were viewed as evidence for acute tolerance. Results showed significant changes in most measures as a function of nicotine dose, and the dose-response curves for most VAS and POMS scales tended to be shifted to the right, or dampened, in smokers relative to nonsmokers, consistent with chronic tolerance. However, smokers and nonsmokers tended to respond to nicotine in opposite directions for POMS scales of vigor and arousal, perhaps reflecting withdrawal relief in smokers. Acute tolerance on a few selected VAS and POMS scales was apparent for both smokers and nonsmokers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Fifty-four men and women from across the adult life span wrote two-page essays about death and dying. Content coding assessed the extent to which essays were concerned with death or dying (i.e., as a subject of discussion) and self, others, or more abstract conceptions (i.e., referent), as well as levels of impact, involvement, and acceptance. Structural analysis revealed that for both genders discussions of death were both more frequent and more complex than were discussions of dying, and individuals referred to others more often and in more simplistic terms than to self. The middle-aged writers placed greater emphasis on dying. All discussions were characterized by high impact and involvement and low levels of acceptance.

As in Europe and the USA, POMS is now going to be widely used in the area of occupational health in Japan. However, the Japanese translation of POMS is still not well established. Therefore, in this study, we translated the POMS into Japanese, and using 261 medical students in their last three years of study, we analyzed whether the fifty-six items of the mood factors of POMS are correctly or differently interpreted compared with the classified mood states in the original POMS. The number of the items, differently interpreted at a higher frequency than 20% among the students, was about 20 on the average of three years. Many of the items fell under the heading of "depression-dejection" and "tension-anxiety". The number of items, differently interpreted at a lower frequency than 5% among the students, was about 15 on the average of three years. Many of these items belonged to "vigor". The Japanese translation of POMS was applied to 106 workers engaged in manufacturing automotive parts. Among male and female workers exposed to organic solvents, a positive correlation (P < 0.05) was found between the urinary hippuric acid level and the score of "anger-hostility". Negative correlations (P < 0.05-0.001) were found between the age and each score of "tension-anxiety", "depression-dejection", "anger-hostility", "fatigue" and "confusion". However, no significant difference in the score of any mood factors of POMS was found between the group of sixty-one workers exposed to organic solvents and the group of forty-five workers unexposed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Current psychiatric research on panic disorder and its treatment are heavily influenced by neurobiological and cognitive-behavioral models rather than psychodynamic propositions, and psychodynamic treatment is generally considered to be of little benefit in amelioration of symptoms. However, because neither of the current models fully explains the clinical psychopathology, etiology, or pathogenesis of panic disorder, there is a need for further model building. The authors suggest that a psychodynamic approach may add to the understanding of patients with panic disorder. They base their psychodynamic formulation on pilot interviews with nine patients with panic disorder, published reports of psychological characteristics of patients with panic disorder, and data from infant and animal research on temperament. Interview results included the following: 1) all of the patients described themselves as fearful, nervous, or shy as children, 2) they remembered their parents as angry, frightening, critical, or controlling, 3) they frequently indicated discomfort with aggression, 4) most described chronic feelings of low self-esteem, 5) their spouses were characterized as passive, kind, and nonaggressive, and 6) stressors associated with frustration and resentment preceded the onset of panic. The authors propose a model in which inborn neurophysiological irritability predisposes to early fearfulness. Exposure to parental behaviors that augment fearfulness results in disturbances in object relations and persistence of conflicts between dependence and independence, which predispose to fears of feeling trapped, suffocated, and unable to escape and/or feeling alone and unable to get help. Catastrophic fears of helplessness in the face of suffocation or abandonment are easily accessible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

These data from the ECA research program clearly indicate considerable variation in prevalence among different occupational groups in the United States for major depression, alcohol abuse/dependence, and drug abuse/dependence. For example, the crude lifetime prevalences for depression ranged from 0.7 to 8.6 per 100; for alcohol it was 7.5 to 32.6, and for drugs it was 3.1 to 10.5. The results also indicate that some occupations are associated with much higher rates of ADM problems. By way of illustration, the 6-month crude prevalence of major depression for the total sample of employed persons 18-64 years of age was 2.9. Six of the occupational groups had prevalences which exceeded this rate. The overall 6-month prevalence of alcohol abuse/dependence was 5.8, and six occupational groups had prevalences in excess of this. Similarly, the overall 6-month prevalence was 2.6 for drug abuse/dependence, and five occupational groups had prevalences which exceeded this. Translated into terms of relative risk, it is clear that among the occupational groups some are at markedly increased risk of ADM disorders. For these comparisons, we used as the baseline group in logistic regression analyses, Job 1, composed of executive, administrative, and managerial occupations. This group is the first in the Census classification, had crude rates near the overall prevalence rates for depression, alcohol, and drugs, and is also one of the occupational categories with the highest prestige. Logistic regression analyses were done with and without controls for differences among occupational groups in gender, age, and educational level. As might be expected, adjustment in general narrowed differences in prevalence among occupational groups, and even on occasion, changed the rank order of groups slightly. However, in general, those groups with higher odds ratios based on crude rates also had higher adjusted odds ratios. Table 6 summarizes our findings, based on the adjusted odds ratios. In this table, we list occupational groups which had a relative risk of 30% or greater above baseline (Job 1), for both 6 month and lifetime prevalences, for each of the three ADM disorders. As can be seen, there is virtually no overlap between risk of depression, on the one hand, and risk of alcohol or drug abuse. The exceptions are Job 4 (sales) which ranked third for major depression and second for alcohol abuse in terms of 6-month prevalence, and Job 9 (farming, fishing, forestry), which had the [table: see text] highest lifetime risk for major depression and the second-highest 6-month risk for drug abuse/dependence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) has become the nonsurgical treatment of choice for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Recent evidence suggests that intermittent use of CPAP by patients is more common than nightly compliance. To determine the consequences of intermittent CPAP use, in terms of a return of sleep-disordered breathing and daytime hypersomnolence, 15 OSAS subjects were evaluated at three times: (1) before CPAP treatment (pretreatment), (2) after 30 to 237 days posttreatment during a night of CPAP use (on CPAP), and (3) during a night without CPAP (off CPAP). Evaluations of sleep-disordered breathing and three domains of hypersomnolence, physiologic sleep tendency, subjective sleepiness, and performance, were accomplished with the respiratory disturbance index (RDI), multiple sleep latency test (MSLT), Stanford sleepiness scale (SSS), and psychomotor vigilance task (PVT), respectively. CPAP use was encouraged and monitored from pretreatment to post-treatment by daily diaries for most subjects and an electronic device for a subset of subjects. As expected, CPAP eliminated apneas and hypopneas, and following the on CPAP night, there were statistically significant improvements in objective measures of sleepiness (MSLT and PVT). Subjective measures of sleepiness and fatigue also showed improvement. Sleeping without CPAP for one night reversed virtually all of the sleep and daytime alertness gains derived from sleeping with CPAP. This occurred despite a statistically significant reduction in the RDI on the night off CPAP (M = 36.8, SD = 28.0 events/h) relative to the pretreatment night (M = 56.6, SD = 24.8 events/h), which may be due to a lessening of the edema of the upper airway following CPAP use.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A review was conducted of the safety and tolerability of fluvoxamine in 54 worldwide marketing studies that enrolled 24,624 patients, the majority of whom were treated with fluvoxamine in uncontrolled studies in depression. In accordance with the general epidemiologic distribution of depressive disorder, female patients and patients aged between 30 and 50 years predominated. The majority of patients were treated for 6 weeks, the most frequent, or modal, total daily dose being 100 mg. Overall, 57.4% of the patients exposed to fluvoxamine did not have any adverse experiences. The greatest proportion of adverse experiences, as defined using COSTART body systems, affected the digestive system (24.1%), the nervous system (23.7%), and the body as a whole (15.3%). The only adverse experience with an incidence greater than 10% was nausea (15.7%); somnolence (6.9%) and asthenia (6.2%) were the next most frequent adverse experiences. Notably, the rates of agitation and anxiety were only 1.4% and 1.3%, respectively. The incidences of adverse experiences generally increased with age and were slightly higher in females than in males. In total, 15.1% of patients discontinued treatment prematurely as a result of adverse experiences, principally nausea, dizziness, vomiting, somnolence, abdominal pain, and headache. The overall incidence of serious adverse events in association with fluvoxamine treatment was 2.5% when U.S. Food and Drug Administration criteria and the most conservative approach, without causality judgments, were used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We report here follow-up data on subjects who were examined in two surveys conducted by the United States Center for Health Statistics at an interval of 8 years. The first survey was the 1st National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES-1), and the second conducted 8 years later was the National Health and Nutrition Epidemiologic Follow-up Study (NHEFS). From an original sample of 3023 subjects, 153 were known to be deceased, leaving a potential sample of 2870 cases, of whom 2341 were ultimately examined in the NHEFS. The definition of pain used in the NHANES-1 survey identified 15% of the subjects as suffering from persistent pain. Using a different pain definition, in the NHEFS, the frequency of subjects with chronic pain was 32.8%. Applying this second definition, the percentage of subjects with chronic pain in the NHANES-1 had risen from 15 to 20.2. Some subjects (32.5%) who originally had chronic pain were free from pain at the time of follow-up; 59% of the subjects with chronic pain on follow-up did not have it initially. As found originally in the NHANES-1, the group with chronic pain at the NHEFS comprised significantly more females, older people, and people with lower income. On logistic regression analysis the strongest relationship found at the NHEFS between the variables examined was between chronic pain and depression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It is typical for some to assess the misbehavior of children in the dental appointment to be exclusively for reasons of fear. Such an assessment is offered in this paper to be naive. Fear certainly can be a predictor of avoidance behavior, but avoidance behaviors are often found in child dental patients who are remarkably well acquainted with dentistry and who know that the procedures that lay ahead for them are in no way painful or fearful at all. In the case of a recalcitrant child patient, the mechanism by which human beings get things done with other human beings, requests and promises, does not work because of the child's aversion to adult authority. It is submitted that there are children who are poor promisers, because of a background discourse that they have with themselves that makes it difficult for them to interface effectively, i.e. by making effective promises, with other people. Since the dentist is a requester and the dental appointment works by requests, these children are reliably problem patients. They cannot make commitments to cooperate. Four types of children have been described who by a misdirected goal of their childhood, which they have absorbed early, are reliable predictors of misbehavior and avoidance behavior during dental appointments. The internalized goal makes cooperation with a requesting adult difficult. This fact is often seen perhaps in the dental office first, because in our society today very few requests are made of our preschool children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Monoamine oxidase is an iron containing enzyme that exists as 2 isozymes, A and B, that have different affinities for various amines as substrates. The activity of monoamine oxidase helps to maintain neuron firing rates throughout the body within homeostatic limits. It does this by metabolizing in the liver bioactive amines absorbed into the bloodstream from food, by metabolizing in the endothelial cells of cerebral vascular microvessels, as part of the blood brain barrier, bioactive amines in the bloodstream, and by metabolizing in the cytoplasm of neurons, molecules of biogenic amine neurotransmitters that are not enclosed in vesicles. Part of the biochemical activity of monoamine oxidase generates hydroxyl radicals, very toxic members of the oxygen free radical group, that may be involved in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease. Inhibiting monoamine oxidase with selegiline (1-deprenyl) seems to have neuroprotective actions but this may be due to inducing the release of neuronal growth factors rather than by preventing the formation of free radicals. Other drugs that inhibit monoamine oxidase are used to treat patients with atypical depression, panic attacks or post traumatic stress syndrome. It is hypothesized that the emotions act as positive or negative reinforcers of behavior patterns that increase the probability of survival of the organism. The original releasing stimuli for the emotions are related to the basic survival reflexes of the hypothalamus but the emotional response can be easily conditioned to formerly neutral stimuli by association. In the absence of the original releasing stimuli, these learned emotions increase the frequency of survival oriented behavior and decrease the frequency of behavior that jeopardizes survival. The emotional disorders are conditions in which the brain's reinforcement system is inoperative, the person loses contact with reality and the person's behavior bears no relationship to survival. Aversive stimulation evokes a negative emotional response that motivates the organism to escape from the aversive stimulation, and to avoid it, and any conditioned stimuli associated it, in the future. When the aversive stimulation and to avoid it, and any conditioned stimuli When the aversive stimulation is inescapable or unavoidable, the organism experiences stress. When the stressful aversive situation is not lethal, survival does not depend on escape but rather on conservation of energy. With repeated exposure, the negative emotional response to the aversive stimulation extinguishes, the organism adapts to the situation and takes on a passive, energy saving behavior pattern.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

A single dose of mianserin (a 5HT1C/5HT2 antagonist), administered 1 hr, 48 hr, or 7 days before testing, was evaluated for its efficacy in alleviating or preventing the occurrence of anxiogenic behaviors observed during ethanol withdrawal. Other behavioral experiments using selected drug interactions were conducted to examine whether the effect of mianserin was related to a long-term modification of 5-hydroxy-tryptamine (5HT) receptor function. Rats were fed a liquid diet containing 4.5% ethanol for 4 days. They were tested on the elevated plus-maze (EPM) 12 hr (acute withdrawal) and 5 days (protracted withdrawal) after the last ethanol dose. Ethanol withdrawal induced a pattern of "anxiogenic" behavior that consisted of reduced activity (total entries) and a reduced proportion of open arm activity. Mianserin, injected as a single dose given either 1 hr (0.16-5 mg/kg, ip) before testing or given (20 mg/kg, ip) on the morning of the 3rd day of ethanol administration, i.e., 48 hr and 7 days before testing, dose-dependently prevented or reversed the ethanol withdrawal induced reduction in open-arm activity. In contrast, the 5HT1C/5HT2 receptor agonist (+/- )-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane HCl (DOl) did not affect behaviors in the EPM in ethanol-naive rats, nor in those undergoing ethanol withdrawal. However, although there was a marked tolerance to DOl-induced body shakes (a measure of 5HT2 function) during withdrawal, DOl reversed the action of mianserin in the EPM. The 5HT1 receptor agonist, 5HT2 receptor antagonist 1-naphthyl-piperazine (1-NP) reduced open-arm activity in ethanol-naive rats and this action was enhanced during withdrawal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This article describes the factors that motivated the nursing staff of the cardiac surgery unit at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal, to revise their preoperative teaching program. The motivating factors described are the length of the preoperative waiting period; the level of preoperative anxiety; the decreased length of hospital stay; the dissatisfaction of the nursing staff with current patient teaching practices; and the lack of available resources. The reorganization of the teaching program was based upon the previously described factors combined with a review of the literature that demonstrated the impact of preoperative anxiety, emotional support and psycho-educational interventions upon the client's recovery. The goals of the new teaching program are to provide the client and the family with cognitive and sensory information about the client's impending hospitalization, chronic illness and necessary lifestyle modifications. The program consists of a system of telephone calls during the preoperative waiting period; a videotape viewing; a tour of the cardiac surgery unit; informal discussion groups; and the availability of nursing consultation to decrease preoperative anxiety. The end result of these interventions is more time for client support and integration of necessary information by the client and family. This kind of program has the potential to provide satisfaction at many levels by identifying client's at risk; increasing client knowledge; increasing support; decreasing anxiety during the preoperative waiting period; and decreasing the length of hospital stay. The nursing staff gained a heightened sense of accomplishment because the program was developed according to the nursing department's philosophy, which includes primary nursing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To help clarify the nature of coping activities in chronic pain, this study compared how depressed (n = 37) and non-depressed (n = 40) chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients attempted to cope with pain-specific and general non-pain life stressors, relative to matched healthy control subjects (n = 40). We hypothesized that depressed mood, rather than pain alone, would account for differences in coping activities between groups. Specifically, we expected that depressed CLBP patients would report a greater proportion of passive and avoidant coping responses and less active problem solving coping attempts than non-depressed patients and controls. Results indicated that depressed CLBP patients reported more passive-avoidant coping activities than did non-depressed CLBP patients and controls, whereas coping responses were similar for non-depressed CLBP patients and controls. Additionally, subjects across groups tended to report more passive-avoidant coping in response to the specific back pain stressor (i.e., exacerbation of back pain during activity) than to other life stressors. Finally, the magnitude of reported differences in coping attempts across groups varied as a function of the type of stressor (i.e., specific back pain stressor vs. general stressful life events), particularly with regard to a disinclination to seek social support in response to the back pain exacerbation. We conclude that: (1) chronic back pain patients may employ different coping activities when attempting to manage pain exacerbations than when confronting more general life stressors, and (2) an increased rate of passive-avoidant coping responses (relative to matched health controls) is associated with the combination of CLBP and concurrent depressed mood, rather than with CLBP alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The design, synthesis, and structure-activity relationships (SAR) for the development of selective dipeptoid ligands for both of the cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor subtypes CCK-A and CCK-B are described. The SAR developed is used to design a ligand with equal nanomolar binding affinity for both the CCK-A and CCK-B receptors. Example compounds such as [1R-[1 alpha[R*(R*)],2 beta]]-4-[[2-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)- 2-methyl-2-[[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1- oxopropyl]-amino]-1-phenylethyl]amino]-4-oxo-butanoic acid (24c), (1R-trans)-N-[alpha-methyl-N-[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy] carbonyl]-D-tryptophyl]-L-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (28i), and N-[alpha-methyl-N-[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1]dec-2-yloxy) carbonyl]-D-tryptophanyl]-L-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (30m) are CCK-B selective compounds having CCK-B binding affinities of IC50 = 3.9, 0.34, and 0.15 nM with a CCK-A/CCK-B ratio of 464, 53, and 170, respectively. Other compounds such as (1R-trans)-N-[alpha-methyl-N-[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]- L-tryptophyl]-D-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (281) and N-(alpha-methyl-N-[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1]dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]-L - tryptophyl]-D-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (30p) are CCK-A-selective compounds having CCK-A binding affinities of IC50 = 7.9 and 2.82 nM with a CCK-A/CCK-B ratio of 0.007 and 0.01, respectively. Further to these, (1S-trans)-N-[alpha-methyl-N-[[(2-methylcyclohexyl)oxy] carbonyl]-D-tryptophyl]-L-3-(phenylmethyl)-beta-alanine (28h) is a mixed CCK-A/CCK-B ligand with a CCK-A binding affinity of IC50 = 3.9 nM and a CCK-B binding affinity of IC50 = 4.2, producing a CCK-A/CCK-B ratio of unity. The CCK-B selective compounds are shown to be antagonists in electrophysiological tests on the rat ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus with an equilibrium constant (Ke) value of 2.8 nM for 30m and are also shown to be anxiolytic in the mouse ligh/dark box test with a minimum effective dose of 0.01 mg/kg, sc, for 30m. The CCK-A selective compounds are also shown to be competitive antagonists by the inhibition of CCK-8S-evoked amylase secretion from pancreatic acinar cells with a Ke value of 16 nM for 30p. In electrophysiological tests on the rat dorsal raphé (an area rich in CCK-A receptors) 30p had a Ke value of 12.8 nM. The mixed CCK-A/CCK-B compound 28h showed antagonistic properties in both CCK-A and CCK-B models; thus it inhibited CCK-8S-evoked amylase secretion from pancreatic acinar cells and is anxiolytic in the light/dark box paradigm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The objective was to study the dimensionality of knowledge among general practitioners in Norway about transmission of HIV and what factors influence the degree of knowledge. Data were collected by a mailed questionnaire. Independent variables were experience of HIV, acquisition of knowledge and confidence in information on HIV from the central authorities and perception of own knowledge, skills of practice and fear of oneself or one's family contracting the HIV infection. Analysis of variance and multiple classification analysis were applied to measure the effect of independent variables on knowledge about transmission of HIV. The general practitioners in three counties (Oslo, Møre og Romsdal and Troms), constituting one-quarter of the Norwegian general practitioner population were selected (n = 578). The response rate was 65%, and the results are assumed to be representative of Norwegian general practitioners. Four dimensions of knowledge about transmission of HIV were identified by factor analysis. The two most important, transmission through 'body fluids' and transmission by 'needle sticks', were subsequently converted into sum scores and used as dependent variables. Forty-five per cent of the respondents were uncertain about ways in which HIV is not transmitted through 'body fluids'. There was an association between knowledge about transmission through 'body fluids' and the variables county background, confidence in the information about HIV and fear of contracting HIV. In the multiple classification analysis these three variables explained 11% of the variation in knowledge about transmission through 'body fluids'. Only confidence and fear significantly predicted the degree of knowledge, and among the 11% who had no confidence in the information received the effect of fear on knowledge increased significantly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Sedating children safely and effectively for minor laceration repair is a well-recognized clinical problem. A randomized, double-blind, and controlled study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of intranasal midazolam for reducing stress during the suturing of lacerations in preschool children. Fifty-nine children with simple lacerations that required suturing were randomly assigned to one of three groups. Group 1 received intranasal midazolam, 0.4 mg/kg, prior to suturing. Group 2 received an equivalent volume of normal saline intranasally prior to suturing as a placebo. Group 3 was the control group and received no intervention prior to suturing. Heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, and pulse oximetry were monitored at 5-minute intervals throughout the procedure. Subjective variables were also measured at 5-minute intervals and included a cry score, a motion score, and a struggle score. Parent satisfaction was measured via a short telephone interview the following day. There were no significant differences in outcome between the placebo group and the control group. Their results were pooled and compared with the results for the midazolam group. The midazolam group showed significant reductions for mean heart rate, maximum heart rate, and maximum systolic blood pressure when compared with the placebo/control group. Scores for two of the three subjective variables, cry and struggle, were significantly reduced for the midazolam group. The papoose board was considered unnecessary in retrospect for more than half of patients in the midazolam group compared with only one fifth of patients in the placebo/control group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

I.P. Pavlov wrote: "First of all it is important to comprehend psychologically and then translate into physiological language". On the examples of comparison of the evoked potentials with a theory of signal identification (A.M. Ivanitskiĭ) and need-informational theory of emotions (P.V. Simonov) with the "general low of human emotions" (D. Price, J. Barrell) is demonstrated the efficiency of the simultaneous study of the higher brain functions by neurophysiological and psychological methods. Recent experimental data are underlied by the natural-scientific bases of consciousness. From the author's point of view consciousness is knowledge, which by means of words, mathematical symbols and artistic images may be shared with other individuals, with other generations in a form of cultural monuments. Recent studies by O. Grindel' have shown that preservation of connections between the gnostic cortical areas with the verbal brain structures is a necessary condition of consciousness functioning. The subconsciousness is well automatized and because of that no longer conscious skills, well learned social norms controlling behaviour and experienced as "the voice of heart", "the call of duty" etc. Super-Ego by Freud belongs to the subconscious sphere of the psychic. The superconsciousness (creative intuition) is an initial stage of a creative venture, uncontrolled by consciousness and will: initial closing of new temporary connections (whether they conform to the reality or not is defined only later). Actual controversy between determinism and freedom of choice may be removed by the complementation principle. The man is not free (determined) from the point of view of an external observer, who considers the determination of the man by genetic factors and educational conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A variety of evidence shows that stress contributes to a more or less sustained elevation of blood pressure, as well as to the triggering and aggravation of cardiovascular pathology, especially coronary heart disease. Experimentally induced changes, that may be pathogenic due to their duration or repetition, can be produced in hemodynamics, lipid metabolism, or hemostasis. High blood pressure, vascular heredity, but also a trend to inhibition of action, seem to be responsible for hyperreactivity to stress. Hypertensives are particularly reactive to active stresses related to controlable situations, experienced as challenges. Several prospective studies in healthy subjects have confirmed the increased risk for coronary heart disease of certain psychological characteristics: the most known of them is Rosenman's and Friedman's type A behavior (hyperactivity, speed and impatience, hard driving, job involvement). It is known that individuals presenting such characteristics exhibit increased neuroendocrine responses to all types of stress. Pattern A predicts the incidence of myocardial infarction, independently of other coronary risk factors, such as hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, or smoking habits. It as been proved that type A individuals deal on average with more stressing conditions than type B individuals and that they set higher goals than general population. On a cognitive level, they tend to have an internal "locus of control" (they are inclined to attribute their personal successes or failures to their own responsibility). Nevertheless, the most reactive to stress among type A individuals are those whose locus of control is external. The predictive validity of pattern A in coronary mortality is more debated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We tested the thermogenic hypothesis that reductions in blood pressure and self-reported state anxiety and altered brain electrocortical (electroencephalographic, EEG) activity after acute exercise are due to increased body temperature. Eleven fit [cycle peak O2 consumption (VO2peak) = 57 +/- 5.8 ml.kg-1 x min-1] males (26 +/- 5.8 yr) were randomly assigned to four 20-min conditions in a within-subjects counterbalanced design: 1) thermoneutral (32-35 degrees C) or 2) cold (18-23 degrees C) cycling at 70% VO2peak, 3) passive warm water exposure (39-41 degrees C), and 4) quiet rest (60 dB below ambient; 22 +/- 1 degrees C). All exercise testing was conducted in shoulder-deep water. Esophageal temperature increased equally during thermoneutral cycling (+1.45 +/- 0.05 degrees C) and passive heating (+1.51 +/- 0.06 degrees C), was blunted during cold cycling (+0.40 +/- 0.12 degrees C), and was unchanged at rest. Mean radial arterial pressure (MAP), self-reported state anxiety (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, STAI), and spontaneous occipital (O1 + O2) and photostimulated temporal (T5 + T6) surface EEG activity (10-20 system) in theta (4-8 Hz), alpha (9-13 Hz), and beta (14-40 Hz) frequency bands were assessed 5 min pre- and 10-15 and 20-25 min postcondition and analyzed in 4- (condition) by-3 (time) repeated-measures analysis of variance (P < 0.05). Results showed a condition-by-time interaction for MAP, which decreased from pre- to 15 min postcondition for thermoneutral cycling (81 +/- 2 to 73 +/- 2.7 mmHg) and passive heating (86 +/- 2.5 to 74 +/- 1.4 mmHg) and persisted at 25 min postcondition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Nineteen bulimic women and 22 age-matched controls were randomly assigned to receive 25 g of glucose or a placebo injection under double-blind conditions. Blood samples of glucose, insulin, and glucagon, and psychometric assessments of mood and food cravings were obtained 10 min before, and 0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 45, and 60 min after injection. Blood levels of the large neutral amino acids (LNAAs) tryptophan, tyrosine, leucine, valine, phenylalanine, and leucine were determined at 10 min before and 60 min after the injection. Bulimic subjects were found to report more symptoms of distressed mood throughout the entire monitoring period than controls. Five minutes following glucose ingestion the self-reports of depression, fatigue, anxiety, and bewilderment rose to a level among the bulimic subjects that was above that at baseline, and was higher than that of bulimia nervosa (BN) subjects receiving placebo. No comparable change in mood was observed among controls. Blood glucose levels were correlated with mood in the bulimic group, but not in controls. In addition, the glucose injection induced a heightened urge to binge in the bulimic group (compared to placebo at 10 and 60 min), whereas reducing food cravings (for sweets) in the controls (at 5 min). When collapsed across time and injection condition, the blood glucose level of bulimics was lower than that of controls. There were no differences in insulin response between the groups. The bulimic group was found to have lower baseline levels of blood tryptophan, whereas no differences in the tryptophan/LNAA ratio were observed either at baseline or following glucose.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Untreated rats normally avoid the open arms of the "elevated plus-maze," preferring instead the closed arms, whereas rats treated with antianxiety drugs (e.g., diazepam) show far less open-arm avoidance. Although it has often been assumed that rats avoid the open arms because of novelty, height, or open space, the anxiogenic role of these stimuli in the plus-maze has not been systematically examined. In Experiment 1, rats were repeatedly exposed to the elevated plus-maze with the expectation that their "fear" of the open arms would habituate over trials. Instead, open-arm avoidance actually increased on the second trial and showed no evidence of habituating after 18 trials. In Experiment 2, three 30-min sessions of confinement to the open arms ("flooding") failed to decrease rats' open-arm avoidance. Instead, rats that had received flooding avoided the open arms significantly more than control rats during the first test. Experiment 3 showed that although diazepam-treated rats avoided the open arms less than vehicle-controls on the first test this difference dissipated across test trials. Further, diazepam had no carryover effect on rats' subsequent avoidance of the open arms in a nondrugged state. In Experiment 4, plus-maze height was varied from 50 to 6 cm, but rats did not display more open-arm activity as maze height decreased. In Experiment 5, height cues were manipulated by placing a "floor" 8 cm beneath one open arm while leaving the floor of the other open arm at 50 cm. Rats did not avoid the "low" open arm less than the "high" open arm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

An experimental design was used to measure the effects of back massage on anxiety levels of elderly residents in a long-term care institution. Twenty-one residents, 17 females and four males, participated in the study. Subjects were randomly assigned to three groups which received 'back massage with normal conversation', 'conversation only' and 'no intervention' respectively. The dependent variable, anxiety, was measured prior to back massage, immediately following, and 10 minutes later, on four consecutive evenings. The Spielberger Self-Evaluation Questionnaire (STAI), electromyographic recordings, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and heart rate were used as measures of anxiety. Analysis of variance was used to examine differences in group mean scores over the pre-test to post-test, post-test to delayed time interval, and pre-test to delayed time intervals, Scheffé comparisons being made where indicated. With the exception of mean DBP which showed no change from pre-test to post-test and HR which increased from post-test to delayed time interval, there was a statistically insignificant decrease in mean scores on all variables in the back massage group from pre-test to post-test and from post-test to delayed time interval. There was a statistically significant difference in the mean anxiety (STAI) score between the back massage group and the no intervention group. The difference between the back massage group and the conversation only group approached statistical significance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

5'-Methyltetrahydrofolic acid (5'-MTHF) in addition to standard psychotropic medication significantly improved clinical recovery in depressed patients with borderline or definite folate deficiency, and significantly reduced depressive symptoms in elderly normofolatemic patients after 3 weeks of treatment. In this equivalence study the effect of 5'-MTHF on depressive symptoms and cognitive status was compared to Trazodone (TRZ) in normofolatemic elderly patients with mild to moderate dementia and depression. Ninety-six patients with dementia, scoring 12-23 at the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and > or = 18 at the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) after a 2-week placebo run-in, were randomized to receive either 5'-MTHF (50 mg/day p.o.) (47 patients) or TRZ (100 mg/day p.o.) (49 patients) in a double-blind design for 8 weeks. HDRS was assessed before, after 4 weeks and at the end of treatment; Rey's Verbal Memory (RVM) test for immediate and delayed recall was evaluated before and after treatment. After 4 weeks of treatment HDRS score was reduced from 23 +/- 5 to 20 +/- 6 in the 5'-MTHF (p < 0.05 vs baseline), and from 23 +/- 3 to 21 +/- 4 in the TRZ group (p < 0.05 vs baseline). A further significant decrease to 18 +/- 6 and 19 +/- 5 respectively was obtained at the end of the treatment period (p < 0.05 vs week 4) with 5'-MTHF and TRZ.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Anxiety, unlike fear, which is strongly object-related, accompanies man all his life. This anxious condition appears especially then, when danger is imminent, also in the case of being severely ill. Anxiety and hope, even in people severely ill, do not exclude each other. Human life for many and perhaps for all is a race with time. The anxiety not being able to realize enough in a given time often is the reason for a busy and restless activity. Man often suffers from anxiety of other human beings. As ever an individual may live, it always owes something to others. Accordingly, the doctor or other helpers never are able to behave totally in the way as the patient expects and the patient cannot act as the helper truly would like it. Man experiences anxiety, however, also then, when he recognizes to remain in debts towards himself and, in the view of religion, towards a task given by God. Yet, man suffers anxiety not only because of his confrontation with death but also with life and the responsibilities which he has to take over when growing up in society. The struggle for existence described by Darwin, a result of anxiety, seems to be lost for the patient knowing he or she is severely ill, and he/she is therefore upset against a destiny which threatens to exclude him/her from the community of healthy people and perhaps soon from the living persons. Anxiety always turns also around the existence in the group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It is only on the higher level of abstraction and generalization that the two human branches of acoustic communication, speech and music are separated from each other. Speech is primarily adjusted to the conceptual-verbal symbols and representation of an objectified, static world. In the linguistic communication the main role is played by the elements of noise, the consonants. It has never been doubted that music is a kind of communication, the mediator of human relationships, but it has been a question what music wants to express. Since the Pythagoreans, some believe to find the key to interpreting its message in the commun quantifiable nature of the musical medium and the cosmos. Another historical tradition considered music as the direct expression of human emotions. Representants of the doctrine of imitation derived music from the intonation of speech and the text seems for many to be a support to "understand" music. Music separated from the primary source of sound phenomena and their direct sensual effect constructed a specific communication system. It possesses an inestimable potential richness of discrete pitches and times, colours and sound intensity. The infinite potentials of successive and simultaneous combinations are suitable for erecting the audible, dynamic models of human relations and types of behaviour, internal events and interactions, different situations. European polyphony established a strictly regulated, closed syntax of musical communication which comes close to conceptual precision. Its logic is based upon the natural potentials of the kinship of pitches and the human organ of hearing. The live, mobile network of the relations thus created is regulated by a further developed quasi-binary logic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Psychological, cardiovascular, endocrine, and metabolic reactions to a sustained infusion of epinephrine (E) and norepinephrine (NE) were studied in 10 healthy male volunteers in a placebo-controlled randomized design. The subjects participated each in three sessions during which they received 6-hr infusion of either E (82 pmol/kg/min), NE (178 pmol/kg/min), or placebo (PLA) (saline, 5.4 ml/hr). Heart rate and intra-arterial blood pressure were recorded continuously. Blood samples for assay of catecholamines, cortisol, prolactin, growth hormone, insulin, triglycerides, and glucose were obtained at regular intervals. Changes in subjective mood were assessed with the Profile of Mood States (POMS) and the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). During infusion of E, arterial plasma epinephrine levels increased 10-fold, which induced significant increases in heart rate, plasma insulin, and glucose levels, and decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and diastolic pressure (DAP). NE infusion caused a 5-fold arterial plasma norepinephrine increase and induced a significant decrease in heart rate and increases in MAP, DAP, and glucose levels. The effects were present shortly after initiation of the infusions, remained fairly constant during the 6-hr infusion period and disappeared within 1 hr after the infusions had been stopped. Changes in subjective mood were not observed during the infusions, nor after the infusions had been stopped. Infusion of E or NE also had no significant effect on systolic blood pressure, plasma prolactin, growth hormone, cortisol, and triglycerides. Our results show that moderate cardiovascular and metabolic effects can be caused by sustained increases in circulating catecholamines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The Naples high- (NHE) and low-excitability (NLE) are two rat lines, selectively bred for high and low activity levels in a Làt-maze, respectively. Because the activity level in a novel environment depends mainly on the integrity of the hippocampal formation, and NLE and NHE rats differ with a similar background of emotionality, arterial blood pressure, and learning ability, they have been proposed as animal model to study hippocampal functions. Our aim is to prove evidence in favor and against this hypothesis. The evidence in favor indicates that NLE/NHE rats have a defective spatial processing, and pertains to (a) Differential activity in a spatial novelty situation (selection trait), proportional to the stimulus complexity rats are exposed to (NHE are hyper- and NLE-rats hypoactive); and (b) Impaired working memory in a six-arm non-reinforced tunnel maze in both lines compared to random-bred rats, that was reversed by the introduction of a reinforcer. In addition, multiple evidence of (i) lower intra- + infrapyramidal mossy fiber terminals in both NLE/NHE vs. controls; (ii) increased sensitivity of hippocampal elements to microinjections of vasopressin (but not oxytocin) and of "delta" (but not "mu") opioids; (iii) lower number of high-affinity glucocorticoid receptors; (iv) lower number of alpha- but not beta-adrenergic receptors in the hippocampus and hypothalamus of NHE rats only; and (v) the genotype-dependent behavior of a DNA fraction with fast turnover, suggest that both NHE/NLE are "disintegrated" at the hippocampal interface. Further, neurobehavioral covariations among individual differences reveal nonlinear, complex relationships, an evidence apparently against the hypothesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

As reviewed here and elsewhere in this symposium, acetylcholine, in conjunction with other neurotransmitter systems, plays a very important role in the regulation of circadian and sleep-wake states. To briefly recapitulate, several current basic concepts about the regulation of sleep-wake states include: (a) REM sleep, or at least its phasic events (eye movements and PGO spikes), are promoted by cholinergic neurons originating within the peribrachial regions [LDT/PPT] (Mitani et al., 1988; Shiromani et al., 1988; Datta et al., 1991; Shouse and Siegel, 1992); (b) REM sleep may be inhibited by noradrenergic and serotonergic neurons in the locus coeruleus and dorsal raphe, respectively (Siegel, 1989; Steriade and McCarley, 1990; Jones, 1991); (c) stages 3 and 4 (Delta) sleep are inhibited by cholinergic terminals from basal forebrain to cortex (Buzsaki et al., 1988) and from LDT/PPT to thalamus (Steriade and McCarley, 1990; Steriade et al., 1991); (d) Delta sleep is modulated by complex serotonergic mechanisms; for example, it is increased by pharmacological antagonists of 5HT2 receptors (Declerck et al., 1987; Dugovic et al., 1989; Benson et al., 1991), although the mechanism and neuroanatomical site at which this effect occurs is unknown. Given the importance of mACHR mediation of components of REM sleep, it is unfortunate that so little is known about the distribution of the various subtypes of mACHRs in brainstem areas which regulate REM sleep. mACHR subtypes have been identified by molecular, biological and pharmacological methods.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It is widely known that the acute psychotic states in alcohol withdrawal period, especially delirium tremens and acute hallucinosis, are often accompanied by intense anxiety and fear. On the other hand it is also noted that the emotional condition in delirium tremens is characterized with "Galgenhumor", namely the feeling of mixture of anxiety and euphoria. Fifty-nine patients with alcohol withdrawal acute psychosis, who admitted in Serigaya Hospital, Kanagawa Prefectural Center of Psychiatry, during the period August 1991-January 1993, were investigated clinically in focusing on the emotional condition. The emotional condition has been grasped in following four categories. 1. Moderate to intense anxiety, at least once during the course of withdrawal psychotic state: The patient shows manifest anxiety and irritability on his expression or behaviour and he complains his feeling of fear. 2. Only slight anxiety: The patient affirms his inner anxiety and fear, if he is asked. He is sometimes slightly restless but spends the time in the single room without any trouble. 3. No anxiety throughout the course of acute psychotic state. 4. Euphoric mood in the foreground, included cases which have slight anxiety together sometimes. Of 59 cases 6 belonged to the moderate and intense anxiety-group, 23 cases to the slight anxiety-group, 24 cases to the no anxiety-group and 6 to the euphoric-group. This result indicates that anxiety in the alcohol withdrawal acute psychosis may be fewer in frequency and lighter in intensity in comparison with the past reports. The material is divided into two groups, delirium tremens and acute hallucinosis, with regard to the confusion of thinking and behaviour.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Six healthy males, the EMSInauts, were isolated in hyperbaric chambers for a period of 28 days at 5-msw overpressure. During that period they had to carry out meaningful operational and research tasks in addition to monitoring their psychological and physiological reactions. The actual workload was evaluated and compared with the planned workload, and its effects on symptomatology and psychobiology. The perceived workload and its effects on psychosomatic symptomatology and on some biological indices were monitored. Thus it was possible to evaluate how the workload carried during 4 weeks of isolation affected the psychological and biological well-being of the six EMSInauts. The following three types of assessments were performed: 1. Workload assessment: The objective workload was calculated based on the schedule which was revised daily, and the actual load calculated by the commander. A workload questionnaire was administered daily after each working session. 2. Psychosomatic assessment: Morning and evening questionnaires were administered daily. The state of health and of anxiety were also evaluated. 3. Biological indices: Cortisol, testosterone, adrenalin, and noradrenaline were determined once a week. In addition, cardiac activity was monitored every day. The workload assessment showed that on the average the planned workload was accomplished in slightly less than the scheduled time. The workload was not perceived as severe in terms of cognitive, emotional, and physical load. The group rated the support received from each other and from the mission control personnel as average, with minor changes during the isolation period. They gave a high rating to the amount of control they had over their activities. Fatigue and tension were scored in the middle range. The psychosomatic assessment showed that there were few symptoms, and these were mostly of low severity. The most common symptom was general fatigue. Furthermore, minor dizziness, headache and light tremor was in some cases reported. The sleep quality was good, but complaints about poor sleep increased somewhat with the passing of time. Few and mostly minor health problems were experienced during isolation. Only one EMSInaut had to miss one day of work due to a bout of flu. The state of anxiety was below that of the general population throughout the isolation period. The biological indices used showed no evidence of stress from the workload handled during the isolation period. The level of the "stress hormone" cortisol actually decreased during isolation. The adrenalin excretion, which tends to go up during acute stress, remained unchanged during this period. Neither was there any evidence of changes in cardiac activity throughout the isolation period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Ethopharmacological studies on the behavior of socially housed rats and squirrel monkeys were conducted to explore the role of the benzodiazepine GABAA-coupled ionophore receptor complex in aggressive and social interactions. Benzodiazepine receptor (BZR) antagonists, ZK 93426 (1-10 mg/kg) and flumazenil (3-10 mg/kg), the partial agonist, ZK 91296 (1-10 mg/kg) and the partial inverse agonists Ro 15-4513 (0.3-10 mg/kg), were administered to (1) squirrel monkeys prior to 1 h focal observations within established social groups or to (2) resident male rats before confrontations with a naive male intruder in their home cage for 5 min. Aggression was modified in a similar manner in both species, although squirrel monkeys were more sensitive to BZR challenges. Specifically, resident male rats showed dose dependent reductions in attack bites directed at intruder males that were significant at the highest dose of ZK 93426 (10 mg/kg). In squirrel monkeys, ZK 93426 (3 and 10 mg/kg) reduced aggressive grasps, threats and displays, as well as reducing the duration of being the target of aggression from untreated group members (1-10 mg/kg). The BZR partial agonist, ZK 91296 and the antagonist, flumazenil produced few effects on social behavior, low and high intensity aggression and motor activity in both species. Flumazenil (10-30 mg/kg) and ZK 91296 (10 mg/kg), but not ZK 93426, produced significant increases in foraging and feeding behaviors in squirrel monkeys. The hyperphagic effects of ZK 91296 and flumazenil, that are typical of BZR agonists compounds, were not observed in rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Dysfunctional grieving represents a failure to follow the predictable course of normal grieving to resolution (Lindemann, 1944). When the process deviates from the norm, the individual becomes overwhelmed and resorts to maladaptive coping. The process implies movement toward assimilation to or accommodation of the loss, resulting in progression toward social, psychological, and medical morbidity. Nurses will better assess the needs of the client with adequate information about the client's recent losses and perception of those losses. Such an assessment, in conjunction with an understanding of the signs, symptoms, and predisposing factors of complicated bereavement, will enable the nurse to develop a plan of effective intervention. Both case examples illustrate unresolved grief. In Case Example 1, the patient denied the importance of the relationship, which became masked with displaced anger and therefore delayed the grieving process. In Case Example 2, the patient's attempts at grieving over the loss of her son were complicated by her long-standing struggle with her husband's infidelity at the time of her pregnancy. The revelation of secondary loss is common in dysfunctional grieving. Resolution of grief encompasses not only accommodation to object loss, but also change in the pathological behaviors incorporated into the patient's self-image as a result of the loss (Lazare, 1979). The maladaptive operations employed by these patients to preserve self-image were discarded as the grief resolved. The focus of therapy included the loss of those behaviors as they were relinquished to prevent the patient from experiencing further anxiety and sense of loss (Zisook, 1987).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study investigated how specific expressive behaviors (verbal report of pain level and the frequency of emitting specific non-verbal facial expressions of pain) may change over the course of a chronic pain condition. Based on the concept of chronic pain behaviors, we hypothesized that both verbal and non-verbal behavior would increase with duration of pain. Thirty-six women with chronic temporomandibular disorder (TMD) pain (duration over 6 months) were compared with 35 recent onset cases (first episode, duration < or = 2 months). Subjects completed questionnaires assessing depression, anxiety, somatization, daily hassles and pain coping strategies. They were videotaped during a resting baseline and 2 painful conditions: experimental cold pressor pain and the clinically relevant pain of palpation of the masticatory muscles and temporomandibular joint; tapes were coded for facial expression using the Facial Action Coding System. Visual analog scale (VAS) ratings of the aversiveness and intensity of ongoing TMD pain were collected at baseline, and similar ratings of cold pressor and clinical examination pain were gathered after the painful stimulus. Recent onset and chronic cases did not differ on self-report measures of anxiety, depression, somatization or daily stress. Coping strategies were also similar, although chronic cases showed a greater tendency to catastrophize. Self-report measures of ambient facial pain, as well as the pain of clinical examination and cold pressor stimulation, revealed no significant differences between the 2 groups. In contrast, rates of pain facial expression were significantly higher for chronic cases under all conditions of the experiment, including baseline.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The perioperative blood glucose (BG) level may represent autonomic responses to various stresses by anesthesia and surgery. We studied the effects of regional blocks combined with general anesthesia on the BG response in pediatric patients. We could not find any significant differences in BG levels between blocked and non-blocked patients. However, BG levels of the children who had been hysterical or crying during the induction of anesthesia were significantly higher than those of the children who had been calm or sleeping. Forty healthy children, aged 1-3 yrs who were scheduled for elective urological surgery were studied. Anesthesia was induced with halothane in oxygen. The anesthesiologist recorded the children's attitude before and during the induction of anesthesia, and described as "calm or asleep (Calm-group), and hysterical or crying (Crying-group)". Patients were assigned randomly to two groups as follow; Group A (n = 20): receiving nerve blocks, Group B (n = 20): without the blocks. The anesthesia was maintained with 1-2.5% halothane in oxygen required to maintain the hemodynamic parameters within 10% of baseline value before surgery. Both groups received lactated-Ringer's solution during the study period. The venous BG levels were determined 5 times, i.e. immediately after asleep, 5, 15, 30 minutes after skin incision and at the conclusion of surgery. BG levels were compared between groups using Mann-Whitney Test. There was no significant difference in BG levels between Group A and B throughout the study period. But BG values of Crying-group (n = 9) were significantly higher than those of Calm-group (n = 31) during perioperative period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The measurement of quality of life in cancer patients has achieved prominence in recent years. This results from recognition of the limitations of available therapies and a clearer view of the goals of treatment in patients whose diseases may not be curable. Many different approaches to the measurement of quality of life have been proposed and these will be reviewed. In a recent survey of available methods, the Medical Research Council's Working Party on Quality of Life Measurement systematically analysed available instruments for measuring quality of life specifically in cancer patients and commented on a number of instruments of general purpose that may be used in oncology. It was concluded that no instrument is entirely satisfactory for all purposes and that available instruments have to be selected carefully for a particular study or a particular aspect of clinical practice. However, among the existing instruments, the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist for a general assessment of many facets of quality of life and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, for detecting psychosocial morbidity quickly and easily, were useful. In our own studies we have used a multiple linear analogue scale system to measure aspects of quality of life in breast cancer patients and have recently addressed the determinants of overall quality of life. Our studies identify the importance of evaluating the psychometric properties of measurement instruments in quality of life. Reliability and validity and the ability to discriminate changes with time and between clinically distinct groups have to be carefully assessed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Fever phobia, the exaggerated fear of fever, is found among parents of all socioeconomic classes. Pediatricians may inadvertently contribute to fever phobia if their practice and educational message are incongruent. To determine how pediatricians treat fever in their practice, the authors sent a self-administered questionnaire to a sample of members of the American Academy of Pediatrics who lived in Massachusetts. Pediatricians were asked (1) how dangerous they believed fever to be, (2) how they treated fever in their practice, and (3) what types of educational information they gave families regarding fever. One-hundred seventy-two of the 234 (74%) eligible pediatricians returned the survey; 151 were completed. Sixty percent of the respondents were male, and 75% practiced some form of primary or episodic care. Ninety-eight (65%) believed that fever itself could be dangerous to a child, with 58 (60%) of the original 98 citing that a temperature of 104 degrees F or greater could lead to complications such as seizures, brain damage, or death. In practice, 108 (72%) always or often recommended treatment to reduce fever and 96 (89%) of the 108 did so at temperatures between 101 degrees and 102 degrees F. One hundred thirty-one (88%) respondents agreed that a sleeping child with fever should be left undisturbed. One hundred twenty-one (80%) pediatricians always or often tried to educate families about fever during sick-child visits, yet only 38% addressed the dangers of fever.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To assess physiological and psychological states accompanying anabolic-androgenic steroid use, male weight lifters 1) were interviewed regarding their physical training and the patterns and effects of any drug use; 2) completed a written physical and medical history questionnaire, a Profile of Mood States questionnaire, and the Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory; and 3) were physically examined, including a blood sample and urinalysis. Subjects were divided into current anabolic-androgenic steroid users (N = 12), previous users (N = 14), and nonusers (N = 24). Current and previous users reported the following changes associated with anabolic-androgenic steroid use: increases in enthusiasm, aggression, and irritability; changes in insomnia, muscle size, muscle strength and density; faster recovery from workouts and injuries; and changes in libido. We were unable to confirm these interview and physical and medical history questionnaire responses using standardized and well-accepted psychological inventories. There were no significant differences among groups for any Profile of Moods factor, total mood disturbance, total Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory score, or any subscale. For current users, there were no significant correlations between either total weekly drug dose or length of time on the current cycle of anabolic-androgenic steroids and any individual scale of the Profile of Mood States, Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory, Profile of Mood States total mood disturbance, or composite Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory score. Furthermore, anabolic-androgenic steroid users did not differ in their responses on these inventories from nonusers or from general population norms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The goal of the present study was to examine the contribution of thalamo-amygdala and thalamo-cortico-amygdala projections to fear conditioning. Lesions were used to destroy either the thalamo-cortico-amygdala projection, the thalamo-amygdala projection, or both projections, and the effects of such lesions on the acquisition of conditioned fear responses (changes in arterial pressure and freezing behavior) to a tone paired with footshock were measured. In each group of animals examined, a large lesion of the acoustic thalamus, including all nuclei of the medial geniculate body and adjacent portions of the posterior thalamus, was made on one side of the brain to block auditory transmission to the forebrain at the level of the thalamus on that side. In this way, experimental lesions could be made on the contralateral side of the brain. Thus, animals with thalamo-amygdala pathway lesions received a large lesion of the acoustic thalamus on one side. Contralaterally, only the nuclei that project to the amygdala (the medial division of the medial geniculate body, the posterior intralaminar nucleus, and the suprageniculate nucleus) were selectively destroyed, leaving much of the thalamo-cortico-amygdala projection intact. For thalamo-cortico-amygdala pathway lesions, the acoustic thalamus was destroyed on one side and temporal and perirhinal cortices were ablated contralaterally. In these animals, thalamo-amygdala projections were intact on the side of the cortical lesion. Destruction of either pathway alone had no effect on auditory fear conditioning. However, combined lesions of the two sensory pathways disrupted conditioning.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of Minulet, a new low-dose oral contraceptive on mood in two groups and to compare the effect with a control group of women not taking oral contraceptives (OC). The women participating were between 16 and 45 years of age. They completed the Amsterdam Mood Questionnaire (AMQ) and the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) three times. They were filled in before treatment started, after taking Minulet for one month and then again after three months. The questionnaires were filled in by a group of 200 women who had not taken OC before (starters), and by a second group of 370 women who were already taking OC (switchers). A group of 140 women who did not use any OC during the study served as a control group. These women also filled in the same questionnaires, both at the start, and after one and three months. As far as the AMQ was concerned, the switchers appeared in the initial measurement to have significantly higher scores (that is to say, a worse mood) for "tiredness", "depression", "moodiness", "anxiety" and "anger", than those of the starters and the control group. Moreover, the switchers had reduced scores (that is to say, an improved mood) on the AMQ-scales during their use of Minulet compared to their initial use of oral contraceptives. The scores of the starters and the control group on the AMQ-scales remained unchanged on all three measurements. It can be concluded from this that these groups felt as well as they did before.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of the study was to assess the quality of life and opinions of heart transplant candidates about transplantation and to evaluate some psychological aspects of anticipation of the procedure. The study comprised 49 patients from the Department of Cardiac and Vascular Surgery according to a list of potential candidates from January 1991. The special questionnaire prepared by the authors was applied in the study. The main topics were: severity and treatment of heart disease, method of informing about necessity of operation and basics of transplantation, factors contributing to the ultimate decision, opinions about problems of donors and psychological aspects of disease and transplantation, especially anxiety and fear. 39 answers (34 men, 5 woman, mean age--49.6 years) were received, including 10 reports of patient's death. Respondents evaluated their compensation of illness as bad or average nearly in equal proportions, 48.3% and 51.7% respectively. They were treated in the intensive care units on average 2.6 times a year. 96.6% assessed highly the method of informing about heart transplantation, consisting of a private conversation with a physician. A similar proportion of respondents (93.1%) began to show concern about problems associated with this procedure. Up to 77.8% declared the desire of increasing their knowledge on that score emphasizing the significance of information coming from physicians. The majority of respondents were interested in postoperative management--but 40.4% stated that they did not know anything about it. 58.6% consent immediately after transplantation had been proposed by the physician.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Oral contraceptive (OC) compliance is adversely affected by three medical factors: side effects, poor cycle control, and patients' fears of serious diseases. Most physicians recognize these factors but fail to understand their true impact on continuation rates. In one study, half of current OC users who changed brands and half of former OC users cited unwanted side effects as their reason for discontinuation. Moreover, a substantial number of women discontinue OCs without consulting their physicians. Among the so-called nuisance side effects cited by patients, the most prominent are bleeding irregularities. In new patients just beginning OC therapy, bleeding irregularities such as breakthrough bleeding and amenorrhea can lead to a very high discontinuation rate; as many as 50% of new users discontinue OCs before the end of the first year because of such side effects. OC discontinuation rates among other patient populations vary. The problem has not been studied extensively, but existing data show the problem is a large one. One study involving 550 women of various ages and years of OC use confirmed that cycle control problems led many women to discontinue OC use--often resulting in an unplanned pregnancy. Six percent of the women in this study discontinued OC use because of poor cycle control, and 23% of this group experienced subsequent unwanted pregnancies. In contrast, clinical tolerance with the new progestins such as gestodene is good; in one study 86% of patients had normal bleeding patterns. The principal consequences of poor cycle control are loss of confidence in the OC and the physician, increased anxiety, disruption of sexual relations, additional physician calls and visits, pregnancy tests, discontinuation, and noncompliance. The perception that European women have regarding the pill is that it is a reliable method that does not interfere with sexual activities. However, doubts about the safety of OCs influence compliance with the method. While concerns regarding blood clots have diminished, the fear of cancer is still a concern for many women. The androgenic side effects of weight gain, acne,and breast tenderness are particularly troubling for adolescents, who are sensitive to changes in body image. In one recent study, 20% to 25% of women stopped taking OCs because of weight gain or acne, and another 25% stopped because of fear of cancer. The medical component of improving compliance is the physician's choice of OC. Formulations with low, effective doses of hormones and the fewest side effects should be selected. Cycle control and the side-effect profile are improved with the new progestins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The effects of lesions of the central nucleus of the amygdala on anxiety-like behaviors in the rat were determined using two animal models, the conditioned suppression of drinking (CSD) and defensive burying paradigms. For CSD conflict testing, water-restricted rats were trained to drink water from a tube that was occasionally electrified (0.25 mA); electrification was signaled by a tone. CSD test sessions were 10 min in duration and were conducted 4 days per week. After at least 3 weeks of conflict testing, both punished (30-40 shocks per session) and unpunished (10-12 ml water per session) responding had stabilized. Subjects then received bilateral electrolytic lesions of the central nucleus of the amygdala or sham lesions. After a 1-week recovery period, CSD conflict testing was reinstated and continued for 20 weeks. Amygdaloid-lesioned subjects accepted significantly more shocks than did sham controls. In addition, acute challenges with the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide (2.5-10 mg/kg, IP, 30-min pretreatment), the barbiturate phenobarbital (20 mg/kg, IP, 10-min pretreatment), and carbamazepine (10 mg/kg, IP, 10-min pretreatment) produced an increase in punished responding in both amygdaloid-lesioned and sham-treated subjects. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA)-based adjusted means for the change in shocks received were not significantly different between the two groups. Following completion of the CSD studies, subjects were tested in the defensive burying paradigm. Although there was no significant difference between lesioned and sham-treated subjects on the percent of animals that exhibited burying, subjects with lesions of the central nucleus of the amygdala exhibited a significantly greater latency to initiate defensive burying.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Numerous health consequences of children's exposure to maternal smoking have been demonstrated, including increased rates of low birth weight, infant mortality, respiratory infections, asthma, and modest impairments of cognitive development. There is little evidence, however, linking maternal smoking and increased rates of children's behavior problems. Data from the population-based National Longitudinal Survey of Youth were used to investigate the possible association of maternal smoking and behavior problems among 2256 children aged 4 through 11 years. In multiple regression analyses the authors controlled for child's race, age, sex, birth weight, and chronic asthma; family structure, income, and divorce or separation in the prior 2 years; mother's education, intelligence, self-esteem, employment status, chronic disabling health conditions, and use of alcohol during pregnancy; and the quality of the home environment as assessed by the Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment-Short Form to investigate the relationship between maternal smoking and children's behavior problems. The measure of maternal smoking status reflected two levels of smoking intensity (less than a pack per day and a pack or more per day) for each of three different categories of children's exposure: prenatal only (mother smoked only during pregnancy), passive only (mother smoked only after pregnancy), and prenatal plus passive exposure (mother smoked both during and after pregnancy). Measures of children's behavior problems included the overall score on a 32-item parent-reported child Behavior Problem Index (PBI), scores on the BPI's subscales, and rates of extreme scores on the BPI.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To determine how important the parents of teenagers consider adolescent health issues to be and the kind of involvement they would like from their schools and physicians, a questionnaire was sent to 1090 families with children attending two public high schools in a suburban community. The 438 parents who completed the questionnaire (40% response rate) indicated that their adolescents had a mean age of 16.2 years, 52% were male, 54% were in grades 11 and 12, and 70% received regular care from a pediatrician. Most parents considered substance use, sexuality, mental health issues, nutritional concerns, and general medical issues to be issues requiring attention nationally; many considered these issues to require attention locally; fewer considered these issues to require attention for their teenager's friends; and only some indicated these issues require attention for their own teenagers. More than 95% of respondents said parents should discuss these topics with their teenagers, more than 80% said they themselves did, and more than 85% said they wanted these issues discussed with their adolescents in school. Approximately three quarters of parents said that they would bring their adolescent to their regular doctor for management of these issues, expected that their physician would be comfortable with such care, and wanted their doctor to discuss these issues with their teenagers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

On the assumption that the ability to discriminate facial expressions has adaptive value to infants during early social exchanges, ethologically based theorists have argued that this ability is innate. Guided by this perspective, we investigated the ability of infants, 4-6 months old to recognize and discriminate facial expressions of anger, fear, and surprise. Results obtained with an infant-controlled habituation-recovery procedure showed that infants both discriminated and recognized these expressions when portrayed by several adult female models. In addition, infants spent more time looking at expressions of anger and surprise than at fear expressions. These results suggest that infants can abstract configurations of features that give affective meaning to facial expressions. It is suggested that the differences in habituation to each expression might be the result of their distinct functional signification for the infant.

This study presents the investigation of the relations between dimensions of depressive mood and sensations seeking in 55 hospitalized depressed subjects. The concept of sensation seeking, identified by M. Zuckerman as a personality dimension, has been defined as the need for the subject to reach his optimal level of activation. The four subscores of sensation seeking, relatively independent, are identified in the sensation seeking scale; they stand at different levels on the dimensions of activation and pleasure which are emotional dimensions. These emotional dimensions are investigated in the exploration of the emotional components of depressive mood; the different symptomatic regroupings, such as blunted affect or impulsivity, do not have the same relations with these dimensions. The sensation seeking concept appears fruitful to investigate the different troubles of affective dynamic, which stand on the expressive and behavioral level, and on the subjective level. As in several studies with normal populations, we find again the same inverse relation between age and sensation seeking, and men obtain higher scores on the Thrill and Adventure seeking factor and on the Desinhibition factor. Globally, depressed subjects have lower scores of sensation seeking than normal subjects (paired by age and sex); but the weakness of sensation seeking is not proportional to the intensity of depression (Hamilton Depressive Scale) and to the the intensity of anxiety (Covi Brief Anxiety Scale). Interesting relations appear with the depressive mood factors, which agree with previous studies of sensation seeking in psychology and psychopathology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We studied variables that influenced rated emotionality value of words and the contribution of each one. 218 subjects rated each word in a list of 98 pairs of words (196 words), one concrete word and one abstract word in each pair, on imagery, concreteness, meaningfulness, and emotionality. Date of entry of each word into Spanish and word length were also examined. Stepwise multiple regression procedures were performed to evaluate the contribution made by each variable to over-all emotionality values. 39.06% of the emotionality variance was explained by imagery. Concreteness and meaningfulness values contributed 3.62% and 2.82%, respectively. Word length and date of entry were rejected in the final equation, as their contributions were minimal.

In the present experiment, the hypothesis that rearing animals in conditions of sexual segregation in infancy (ISS) would affect their adult behavioral reactivity to drug or environmental challenges was tested. Outbred Swiss CD-1 mouse litters were reduced at birth to six pups according to three conditions: MM (all males), MF (sex-balanced composition), and FF (all females). At weaning (day 21), all mice were rehoused in unisexual groups. At adulthood (day 70), animals were challenged either with BDZ agonist chlordiazepoxide (CDP at 2.5- or 5.0-mg/kg dose) or BDZ receptor partial inverse agonist Ro 15-3505 (RO at 3-, 10-, or 30-mg/kg dose) and assessed in sequence for pain reactivity in a hot-plate apparatus (set at 55 +/- 1 degrees C), for locomotor activity in a Varimex apparatus, and finally for neophobia level by measuring the latency to first approach a novel object. As concerns the hot-plate test, lick latency was significantly shortened in MF females receiving CDP (5.0 mg/kg), while RO was either ineffective in MF females or induced a prominent dose-dependent analgesia in FF females. Activity was decreased by CDP (2.5 mg/kg) and enhanced by RO (3.0 mg/kg). For latency to approach a novel object, males as a whole exhibited shorter times than females. Mixed-sex animals of both sexes were less fearful, being also more explorative than their corresponding unisexually reared groups. In particular, MF males receiving either a 5.0-mg/kg CDP dose or a 3.0-mg/kg RO dose explored the object more often than MM males.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Very-low-calorie diets (VLCDs) are effective at reducing weight, even in patients who have often failed with conventional diets. Maintaining weight lost by means of a VLCD remains a clinical challenge. Attempts to prevent weight regain by dietary reeducation or by more formal behavior-modification techniques are not easily applicable to large numbers of patients and are not always successful; the use of drugs to maintain and improve upon initial VLCD success could be of real clinical value. Pharmacological treatment of obesity has evolved in recent years with the development and licensing of potent serotonin agonists, such as dexfenfluramine (dF), acting as nonstimulant anorectic agents. Thermogenic drugs are not yet as advanced in clinical development and evaluation but offer the prospect of increasing energy output in the reduced obese patient. Drugs used to treat obesity need to be effective, to be safe, not to exhibit drug tolerance, and ideally, to be shown to reduce morbidity or mortality from obesity, particularly because treatment will need to be prolonged. Such requirements are not unique for treating obesity, they are similar for drugs used to treat other metabolic diseases such as hypercholesterolemia or diabetes. VLCD followed by dF has been shown to be effective. A double-blind trial randomized 45 patients who had successfully completed 8 wk of treatment on the Cambridge diet to either placebo or dF 15 mg twice daily for 26 wk. Patients continued on a diet giving 60-75% of daily energy needs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We present the pharmacological properties of two cyclopyrrolones, zopiclone as a hypnotic and suriclone as an anxiolytic, and examine their mechanism of action. The effects of zopiclone on the amount of time spent at each vigilance level have been studied in freely moving rats. Zopiclone from 2.5 mg/kg i.p. extends the duration of slow wave sleep (SWS), concomitantly shortening the periods awake. This SWS inducing effect of zopiclone was more potent after 10 mg/kg i.p.; moreover, zopiclone did not depress REM sleep and no rebound of activity in wakefulness or REM sleep were observed the day after zopiclone treatment. In rats, at the cortical level, zopiclone increases the spectral energy in the delta band (0.5 to 4 hertz). This rise in energy appears at doses starting from 1.25 mg/kg p.o. and can also reach the fast frequencies (beta band: 12 to 16 hertz). This power spectrum is characteristic of a compound having tranquilizing-hypnotic potential. Taken together these EEG results corroborate the clinical studies. In man, zopiclone increased SWS, decreased SWS latency and respected sleep architecture in both healthy volunteers and insomniacs. This respect of sleep structure and the relative short duration of action of zopiclone minimized the residual effects seen upon waking (drowsiness, impairment of psychomotor performance). In the Geller-Seifter test, an operant conflict procedure, the minimal effective dose (MED) of suriclone in reversing the conflict-induced inhibition of drinking behavior was 2.5 mg.kg-1 p.o. in rats. Depression of unpunished responding is only seen at higher doses (20 mg.kg-1 p.o.).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Three experiments that used a latent inhibition procedure to investigate the effects of ceronapril on attentional processes in the rat are reported. Latent inhibition is a behavioural paradigm in which prior exposure to a stimulus with no significant consequences retards subsequent conditioning to that stimulus when it is paired with reinforcement. Latent inhibition reflects a process of learning to ignore, or tune out, irrelevant stimuli, and has been suggested as an animal model of the attentional processes disrupted in the acute phase of schizophrenia. In animals, latent inhibition is disrupted by the administration of low doses of amphetamine and enhanced by the administration of neuroleptics. Ceronapril is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor that has been shown to retard the breakdown of central cholecystokinin. It has been proposed that elevation of cholecystokinin levels in the brain may possess neuroleptic-like properties. We assessed this possibility by determining the effects of ceronapril on latent inhibition using a conditioned emotional response procedure, consisting of three stages: pre-exposure, in which the to-be-conditioned stimulus, a tone, was repeatedly presented without reinforcement; conditioning, in which the pre-exposed stimulus was paired with shock; and test, where latent inhibition was indexed by animals' suppression of licking during tone presentation. In Experiment 1, 20 tone pre-exposures were given, and conditioning consisted of five tone-shock pairings; we assessed the effects of 0.005 mg/kg, 0.05 mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg ceronapril, compared with vehicle injections. In Experiment 2, five tone pre-exposures were given, and conditioning consisted of two tone-shock pairings: we assessed the effects of 0.05 mg/kg ceronapril, compared with vehicle injections.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A 10-year-old white female who had received a bone marrow transplant (BMT) at 57 months of age as treatment for late infantile onset metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD), a neurodegenerative autosomal recessive storage disease, showed stabilization of the cognitive degenerative process and demonstrated a partial pattern of cognitive deficits and behavioral abnormalities that has been called NLD (nonverbal learning disabilities) associated with white matter disease. A pattern of good rote memory, reading skills, and concrete language contrasted with poor visual spatial skills, mathematics, and abstract problem solving. She did not show the usual speech prosody and social deficits associated with NLD.

Very few epidemiological surveys have specifically studied relationships between sleep disturbances and psychiatric diseases. In this review, we preferred to use the classification proposed in 1979 by the Association of Sleep Disorders Centers. It includes four main categories: insomnias, excessive sleepiness, troubles of the wake/sleep schedule and parasomnias. Evaluating psychiatric disorders among general populations is easier owing to DSM III and DSM III-R criteria, but there are not equivalent criteria in evaluating sleep disorders. It is almost impossible to realize polysomnographic recordings in large samples, therefore sleep disorders are to be detected by questionnaires. It has been shown that there is a good correlation between self-reports and polysomnographic recordings among clinical and general samples. The prevalence of insomnia, defined as difficulties of initiating and maintaining sleep, is estimated between 9 and 31%. It is higher among women, elderly people, separated and divorced subjects, and low educational levels' groups. It has to be noticed that polysomnographic records of some subjective insomniacs are not different from those of good sleepers, sleep latency excepted. These subjective (and not objective) insomniacs have high scores in anxiety scale, depression scale, or psychologic distress. Insomnia is more frequently noted amongst subjects with psychiatric diagnoses, especially major depressive disorders and anxiety disorders. Depressive disorders are present in 21-40% of insomniacs versus 0-1% of non-insomniacs, and anxiety disorders in 13-24% of insomniacs versus 3-10% of non-insomniacs. In depressive disorders, sleep alterations are frequently noted: they are difficulties of initiating and maintaining sleep, decreasing proportion of slow-wave sleep, decreasing time of REM (rapid eye movement) sleep and REM sleep latency, and increasing density of REM sleep. Of these modifications, the last two ones seem to be specific for depression. The relationships between sleep, aging and depression are more complex than previously noted. For example, differences between depressed and non-depressed subjects depend on the age of the population. The prevalence of hypersomnia is lower than the insomnia's. It varies between 2 and 4%. It is more frequently noted among young people, and never married subjects. Two specific aetiologies must be looked for: sleep apnea syndrome and narcolepsy. These diagnoses are respectively found in 45% and 24% of hypersomniacs examined in American Sleep Centers. Hypersomnias are objectived by the Multiple Sleep Latency Test, which measures the physiologic sleep tendency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This study was designed to determine the following about a geriatric rehabilitation population: (1) the relationship between patients' self-reports of depression and anxiety and staff observations of compromised participation in treatment secondary to emotional dysfunction; (2) the relationship of observations among different disciplines; and (3) changes that may occur to staff observations during the patient's hospitalization. The Geriatric Depression Scale, the depression and anxiety subtests of the Brief Symptom Inventory, and the Modified Mini-Mental State Exam were administered to geriatric patients on admission to and discharge from two DRG-exempt acute rehabilitation units. In addition, day nurses, evening nurses, occupational therapists, and physical therapists rated the same geriatric patients on how frequently their emotional functioning interfered with rehabilitation. Significant correlations were obtained between staff observations and patients' reports of emotional dysfunction, with occupational therapists' ratings generally the most highly correlated with patients' reports. At admission, day and evening nurses reported significantly greater patient emotional dysfunction than did occupational therapists, who reported significantly greater emotional dysfunction than did physical therapists. These differences, however, were not evident by time of discharge. Thus, staff members can provide reliable information to mental health professionals in determining the effect of emotional functioning on rehabilitation participation. However, level of compromised participation secondary to emotional dysfunction reported by staff appears to be contingent on which rehabilitation discipline is asked and when during the patient's hospitalization the inquiry is made. Also, patients who generally participated less in treatment tended to be older, depressed women with less education and greater cognitive impairment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This article describes the course of the nursing home stays of 157 newly admitted patients (55 years and older) using the Behaviour Rating Scale for Elderly Patients ('Beoordelingsschaal Oudere Patiënten'). The follow-up period lasted maximally one year. Differences in the course in relation to the objective of the admission (rehabilitation versus continuous support) and possible factors which impeded or advanced the discharge of the rehabilitation patients, were investigated. For that purpose, information on diagnoses, prognosis, treatment goals and their achievement, and disability according to SIVIS (SIG Nursing Home Information System) was also obtained from the physicians in charge at the nursing home. The course of the nursing home stay appeared to differ for chronic and rehabilitation patients. In addition to physical disability and depressive behavior, the chronic patients, from the time of admission onwards, had more behavioural problems than the rehabilitation patients. Moreover, their dependency, physical and mental disability and inactivity increased in different degree during the stay. For two thirds of the rehabilitation patients, the stay did not end in discharge from the nursing home. For this group, the dependency, depressive behaviour, and to a lesser extent, aggressiveness increased during the stay. The outcome of rehabilitation appeared to be related to the extent of behavioural problems, to the level of disability, and to the medical condition on admission. The least disabled and the 'medically least complex' patients could usually be discharged with an improved level of functioning, which seemed to justify the nursing home stay. The absence of other services impeded discharge in a few cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We hypothesized that, contrary to prior investigations, when concrete and abstract words have similar meanings, correlations of rated emotionality with ratings of imagery, concreteness, and meaningfulness would be positive. 106 subjects rated 48 pairs of words, such as friend and friendship, that differ in only one morpheme. The words of these pairs all differed in concreteness but little in core meaning. Subjects rated the words on imagery, concreteness, emotionality, and meaningfulness. Correlations among all variables were positive and significant: .72 for imagery and emotionality, .71 imagery and meaningfulness, .87 imagery and concreteness, .41 emotionality and meaningfulness, .57 emotionality and concreteness, and .62 meaningfulness and concreteness.

The primary purpose of this investigation was to determine whether selected psychobiologic responses to running exercise vary as a function of the time of day at which exercise is performed. Twelve adult males completed four bouts of randomly assigned, submaximal exercise (20-min runs at 70% VO2max) at 0800, 1200, 1600 and 2000 h. Since selected personality traits have previously been shown to influence circadian rhythms, personality assessments (i.e., Eysenck Personality Questionnaire, EPQ; Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire, MEQ; Spielberger's State-Trait Anger Expression Inventory, STAIX; and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, STAI) were made during the initial testing session. The group studied scored within the normal range on the traits assessed by the EPQ, STAIX, and STAI. Also, subjects were not able to be classified as either "morning" or "evening" types based on MEQ scores. Ten minutes before as well as 10 and 20 min following the exercise bouts, state anxiety, state anger, blood pressure, and heart rate were assessed. Multivariate ANOVAs (four time of day conditions x three trials) revealed significant main effects for the trial factor for state anxiety, state anger, heart rate, and systolic blood pressure. State anxiety, state anger, and systolic blood pressure were found to be reduced at both the 10 and 20 min post-exercise assessment periods when compared with pre-exercise levels. ANOVAs performed on the difference scores showed that the mood improvements and cardiovascular changes were independent of the time of day that exercise was performed, and these findings were confirmed by ANCOVAs, which adjusted for differences in initial values across the four time of day conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Methods of non-invasive monitoring of training status for prevention of staleness in athletes and dancers need to be developed and evaluated. In order to monitor physiologic and psychologic changes which may result from overstraining, we measured urinary excretion of free norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E) and mood states over 5 weeks of an intensive ballet season in 12 (6 men, 6 women) professional dancers. First morning urine voids (AM) were collected at the start of the season and following the only off-day each week with final collection on the last day of the season. Additional urine samples were collected before (pre) and after (post) each dancer's subjectively-rated single most difficult performance. Profile of Mood States (POMS) was completed by and collected from each dancer at the same time as the AM urine samples. NE and E excretions (nanograms per mg creatinine) increased significantly with time (r = 0.91, p less than 0.02, and r = 0.94, p less than 0.01, respectively) from beginning to end of season, and pre to post (51.1 +/- 7.3 to 115.6 +/- 19.7, p less than 0.001 and 19.3 +/- 3.2 to 37.7 +/- 4.2, p less than 0.001, respectively). Women had a significantly higher excretion of NE than did men (F = 9.33, p = 0.014) and no gender differences existed in the excretion of E (F = 0.57, p = 0.484).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purposes of the present study of chronic pain patients were to (a) assess whether cognitive and behavioral coping style is related to personality factors, (b) assess how coping styles differ across personality types, and (c) assess how outpatient interdisciplinary intervention affects the coping styles of various personality types. Four MMPI clusters (Depression/Pathological, V-type, Marginal Depression, and Marginal V-type) were derived using a hierarchical clustering procedure. Seventy subjects also completed the Coping Strategies Questionnaire before and after a 3-week outpatient pain management program. Pretreatment analyses indicated the Depression/Pathological and Marginal Depression groups used diverting attention less than either V-type group. The V-type group reported using praying/hoping significantly more than either of the marginal groups. At posttreatment the Depression/Pathological group used catastrophizing significantly more than either of the marginal groups. Results of pre-post analyses indicated that the Depression/Pathological group increased their use of diverting attention, reinterpreting pain sensations, and ignoring pain sensations, while decreasing catastrophizing. The V-type group increased their use of reinterpreting pain sensations, while decreasing praying/hoping and catastrophizing. Neither of the Marginal subtypes showed significant pre-post changes in coping strategies. These results suggest that different personality types use different pain coping strategies prior to multidisciplinary treatment. Groups showing more severe psychological distress, perhaps related to an underlying personality disorder, displayed greater changes in coping strategies with treatment, but remained more dysfunctional after treatment. These findings suggest that the alteration of coping strategies may be an important treatment effect needing more individualization to maximize treatment response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study tested the hypothesis that the pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) subserving defensive rage behavior in the cat facilitates the occurrence of this response when elicited from the PAG by utilizing excitatory amino acids as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. Cannula electrodes were implanted into the PAG for the elicitation of defensive rage behavior as well as for microinjections of excitatory amino acid antagonists and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA). Monopolar stimulating electrodes were also implanted into the medial hypothalamus from which this response could also be elicited and, when stimulated at subthreshold levels for elicitation of behavior, could also facilitate the occurrence of PAG elicited defensive rage. Initially, dual stimulation of the PAG and medial hypothalamus facilitated the occurrence of defensive rage elicited from the PAG. Then, the identical dual stimulation paradigm was repeated with the same current parameters following the infusion of various antagonists for different receptors into the PAG defensive rage sites. The results indicate that infusion of either kynurenic acid [(0.1-2.0 nmol), a non-selective excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist] or D-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7) [(0.1-2.0 nmol), a specific NMDA receptor antagonist], produced a dose and time dependent blockade of the facilitatory effects of medial hypothalamic stimulation. In contrast, microinjections of relatively larger doses of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) [(4 nmol), a non-NMDA receptor (quisqualate and kainate) antagonist] or atropine [(4.4 nmol), a muscarinic receptor antagonist] had little effect upon medial hypothalamically elicited facilitation of the PAG response. In a second experiment, NMDA [0.1-1.0 nmol] was microinjected directly into PAG defensive rage sites in the absence of medial hypothalamic stimulation. In these animals, drug infusion mimicked the effects of dual stimulation by producing a dose and time dependent decrease in response latencies. A third experiment was designed to further test the hypothesis by neuroanatomical methods. Here, the retrograde label, Fluoro-Gold, was microinjected into defensive rage sites within the PAG and following a survival time of 5-6 days, the animals were sacrificed. The brains were then processed for immunocytochemical analysis of cells that immunoreact positively for aspartate and glutamate. The results indicated the presence of many retrogradely labelled and immunocytochemically positive cells within the rostro-caudal extent of the medial hypothalamus as well as others that were double labelled.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Age-related behavioral changes in the passive avoidance, food neophobia, elevated plus-maze, and water-lick conflict tests were studied using substrains of senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM-P/8 and SAM-R/1) at 2 to 20 months of age. SAM-P/8 mice exhibited a significant impairment of acquisition of passive avoidance compared with SAM-R/1 mice when they were trained repeatedly, and the acquired response in SAM-P/8 mice rapidly diminished in contrast to good retention in SAM-R/1 mice. SAM-P/8 mice showed an age-related decrease in the latency to eat novel food after a 24-h food deprivation as compared with SAM-R/1 mice at 2 to 12 months of age, despite no significant difference in latency to eat familiar food between the two strains. In the elevated plus-maze test, SAM-P/8 mice had apparent increases in the number of entries into open arms and time spent on open arms in comparison to SAM-R/1 mice at 4 through 12 months of age; this difference became obvious with aging, implying age-associated reduced anxiety in the SAM-P/8 strain. In addition, SAM-P/8 mice exhibited a significant increase in punished water drinking compared to SAM-R/1 mice in the water-lick conflict test, although unpunished water intake in SAM-P/8 mice did not differ from that in the SAM-R/1 control. Aged SAM-R/1 mice, 20 months old, exhibited low anxiety-like behavior in the food neophobia and elevated plus-maze tests such as was seen in SAM-P/8 mice, when compared with young (4-month-old) SAM-R/1 mice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A single dose of des-glycinamide-[Arg8]vasopressin (DGAVP, 2 mg intranasal) or oxytocin (OXT, 20 IU intranasal) was given to female and male volunteers, respectively, in a placebo-controlled double-blind trial. Memory, vigilance, attention, and mood were tested starting 10 minutes after treatment. The DGAVP dose improved delayed recognition of abstract words when measured 1 week after treatment and reduced the intercept of a memory comparison task (Sternberg paradigm). A trend was present for DGAVP and OXT to affect learning, i.e., storage processes of verbal memory in an opposite way; DGAVP improved, while OXT attenuated initial storage and the rate of storage. No treatment effects on visual memory and vigilance were found. Of the mood measures, vigor was reduced immediately after treatment with OXT.

Grief that is not acknowledged and worked through may manifest itself in some emotional, mental or physical problem. In recent years much as been learned about coping with grief which the hospice program can utilize to help family members cope with their grief. This study was carried out to determine the helpfulness of the bereavement care of Severance Hospice and to learn more about the grief response of the bereaved. The tools used to collect data were an assessment form used in the bereavement program and the Grief Experience Inventory developed by Sanders and revised and translated by the researcher. Data was obtained from bereaved family members (54 for the final grief assessment and 39 for the grief response assessment) receiving bereavement follow-up, from July 1989 to March 1991. Results of the study were as follows: 1. Final Grief Assessment Regarding the resolution of their grief the majority of the bereaved accepted the reality of the death of their family member, while slightly more than three-quarters were able to express their feelings toward their loss. A large majority had returned to activities of daily living well or fairly well and had reinvested their energy in a person other than the deceased. In addition, the physical condition of the majority was good or fairly good. A majority of the bereaved considered the bereavement care to be helpful and almost three-quarters were not considered to be in need of more follow-up. 2. Grief Response Assessment Age was found to have a moderately positive correlation to appetite disturbance (r = .41, P less than .01) and loss of vigor (r = .37, P less than .01) A moderately positive correlation was found between the number of contacts and sleep disturbance (r = 2.38, P less than .01) Significant differences were found between men and women in regard to guilt (t = 2.38, P less than .05), social isolation (t = 2.44, P less than .05) and depersonalization (t = 2.07, P less than .05) with men having the more intense grief. Significant differences were found in the grief responses of somatization (F = 5.82, P less than .001), physical symptoms (F = 5.87, P less than .001), appetite disturbance (F = 4.40, P less than .01), despair (3.79, P less than .01), anger (Fp2.83, P less than .05), social isolation (F = 3.61, P less than .05), guilt (F = 3.62, P less than .05) and depersonalization (F = 2.58, P less than .05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The objective of the present study was to determine the impact of repeated exposure to the same stressor on opiate receptor-mediated inhibition of basal and stress-related alterations of pituitary LH release. Groups of intact adult male rats were exposed to 8 hr of restraint stress for either 1 or 14 consecutive days. Animals in each group were injected intravenously with the specific opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (NALT, 2 mg/kg bodyweight) or the vehicle saline (SAL) prior to the final scheduled stress episode. Rats pretreated with SAL prior to the single exposure to stress exhibited an increase in plasma LH over the 1st hr of stress, followed by a decline in hormone levels, which reached significance between 3 and 7 hr after initiation of the stress. NALT pretreatment of rats prior to restraint significantly blunted the suppressive effect of stress on circulating LH. Rats repeatedly exposed to stress did not show any significant alteration in plasma LH levels from prestress values at any time during their final stress episode. Pretreatment of chronically stressed rats with NALT before reexposure to stress resulted in plasma hormone levels that were not different from those in animals pretreated with SAL. When the opioid antagonist was administered to animals 24 hr after termination of single or multiple exposures to restraint, NALT-induced increases in basal plasma LH were significantly attenuated in the chronically stressed rats compared to animals subjected to stress only once or not at all.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To compare the effects of atenolol and nifedipine on mood and cognitive function in elderly hypertensive patients. Randomized, double-blind, crossover trial. Thirty-one elderly volunteers (7 women and 4 men) 60 to 81 years of age with mild to moderate hypertension were recruited from the general community and a Veterans Affairs hospital hypertension clinic. Six volunteers withdrew at early phases of the study for reasons unrelated to adverse drug effects. Participants had 2 weeks of placebo, to 6 weeks of titration with atenolol or nifedipine, and weeks of treatment followed by similar periods with the other drug. Psychometric tests designed to assess mood and cognitive function. In the group first treated with nifedipine, the summed recall score on the Buschke selective reminding test (a test of verbal learning and memory) decreased by 9.3 words (95% CI, 2.8 to 15.6 words), or 0%, during nifedipine treatment compared with placebo (P = 0.031). The group first treated with atenolol showed no improvement in summed recall scores when results seen during atenolol therapy and placebo administration were compared (P = 0.10); however, this group had an improvement of 16.1 words (CI, 5.6 to 26.5 words), or of 16%, when the atenolol score was compared with the nifedipine score (P = 0.026). In the group first treated with nifedipine, 6 of 11 patients 55%) showed a decrease of 5 words or more during nifedipine therapy compared with placebo, whereas only 1 of the 14 patients (7%) in the group first treated with atenolol showed a similar decrease (P less than 0.01). On the digit symbol test (a psychomotor test), patients treated first with atenolol tended to improve, whereas patients treated first with nifedipine tended to decline. The difference between nifedipine and atenolol, in terms of the change from the score seen during placebo, was 4.3 codings (CI, 0.7 to 7.9 codings) or 10% (P = 0.043). No statistically significant differences were seen between nifedipine and atenolol therapy regarding the other measures of psychomotor ability, sustained attention, motor performance, verbal fluency, or abstract reasoning, and no effects of either drug on mood or psychopathologic symptoms were noted. Although atenolol and nifedipine are generally free of gross effects on cognition or mood, nifedipine may subtly impair learning and memory in some elderly hypertensive patients.

This study was conducted to determine the extent to which participation in a weight training intervention was associated with changes in the emotional well-being and body image of females compared to non-weight trainers. An ancillary objective was to study the extent to which psychological, physical, and demographic factors accounted for changes in emotional well-being and body image. The experimental group consisted of 60 females, and a comparison group was comprised of 92 females. Experimental subjects participated in a 15-week, two-day-per-week weight training intervention, while subjects in the comparison group did not participate in any weight training activities. Subjects were pre- and posttested on the General Well-Being Schedule and the Body Cathexis Scale. Experimental subjects were also tested in muscular strength and three skinfold measurements. With pretest scores controlled, the weight trainers had significantly higher General Well-Being and Body Cathexis posttest scores than the comparison group. Weight trainers also showed significant increases in muscular strength, and significant decreases in skinfold thickness. Four variables predicted 38.8% of the variance of those who improved most in General Well-Being: lower pretest General Well-Being, lower parental income, greater loss of body weight, and lower posttest skinfold. Five variables predicted 61.5% of the variance of those women who improved most in Body Cathexis: lower pretest Body Cathexis, greater body weight at the outset, shorter in height, less involvement in non-weight training exercise, and lower posttest skinfold. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The present study aimed to test the effects of experimentally placed working side interference on nocturnal bruxers with regard to the health and chewing motor behaviors of the masticatory system. Thirteen asymptomatic nocturnal bruxers, nine males and four females, aged 18-31 years old, were selected according to the including criteria. A metal overlay was fabricated and bonded on the tips and lingual inclines of buccal cusps of the upper second premolar and first molar of the habitual chewing side. It discluded the eccentric contacts without disturbing the centric occlusion. A light emitting diode system was used to record the chewing motor behaviors before (W0), immediately after (W1), one day after (W2), one week after (W3), and one month after (W4) placement of the working side interference. The healthy states of masticatory muscles and TMJs were examined at each session. The results showed: 1. High overlay debonding rate (60%). Among five subjects who were observed over 25 days, 80% showed grinding facets, and 40% showed grade I mobility on the overlay opposing teeth. None of the subjects complained of muscle or joint pain in the one month follow-up period. 2. The chewing movements shifted toward the non-interfered side with narrowed and vertical chews after placement of overlays. Two major responded chewing patterns were found according to the results of statistical analysis. 3. Sixty-nine per cent of the subjects showed higher mean closing velocity than the mean opening velocity at the W0 session.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Researches in the mechanisms of action of antidepressant drugs have recently suggested that endogenous depression is related to an altered sensitivity of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors. Since this hypothesis is difficult to study in the central nervous system of human subjects directly, the alpha-2 adrenergic receptors on peripheral-blood platelets have been used as an accessible and convenient marker of the receptor function. Although the inhibition of adenylate cyclase, via the GTP-binding protein termed Gi, was believed to be the exclusive mechanism of alpha-2 adrenergic receptor action in the platelet, this concept has become less tenable. We have recently indicated that epinephrine stimulates phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis by activating alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in human platelets [Life Sci., 741-747 44 (1989)]. This method involves the measurement of the accumulation of [3H] -inositol-1-phosphate (IP-1) as an index of PI hydrolysis; lithium is added to inhibit the metabolism of IP-1, thus giving an enhanced signal. In addition, this PI response elicited by epinephrine was found to be inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by treatment of platelets with dibutyryl cyclic AMP and 8-bromo-cyclic GMP which are known as potent inhibitors for platelet activation, and may therefore be a useful biochemical index for the study of the signal transduction system of alpha -2 adrenergic receptors. In the present study, the platelet alpha-2 adrenergic receptor-mediated PI responses were assessed in 15 unmedicated patients with endogenous depression and 15 age -and sex-matched control subjects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Balancing the rights of suspected or actual HIV-infected individuals versus the preferences of patients, customers, coworkers, and others requires a delicate balancing of individual rights and responsibilities in light of medical and epidemiological facts. It is undoubtedly the quintessential ethical and legal problem of our time for health care management to confront. The dilemmas and the ensuing debate will be intensifying in the nineties as the number of diagnosed AIDS cases and of HIV-positive individuals rapidly expands. Much of the literature in the management field, and unfortunately some in the area of AIDS, consists of writing that ends with such concepts as prescriptions, guidelines, battleplans, etc. for dealing with the problem being discussed. Certainly, excellent articles and books abound in this vein. There is an ever present desire, however, for deductive reasoning whereby, because the topic is management, the problem, whatever it may be, can be managed in the classical scientific method, with one best way to handle the situation. The typical conclusion to an article such as this would be a section subtitled the antithesis of reality, that is, something like "AIDS Made Easy" or "Ten Steps to Effectively Deal with AIDS For Health Care Providers." The foregoing review presents issues that are too complex to be reduced to simplistic action plans for health care management and providers. The legal and ethical problems of the use of HIV testing of health care providers are but one part of the myriad of difficulties brought on by the epidemic--among these being the complex social issues brought on by AIDS and the ramifications in the areas of hospital and health care service reimbursement, cost, capacity, and adequacy. The legal status and propriety of HIV testing will continue to be under debate and in flux for some time, as all available precedent and guidelines in this area are based on current epidemiological and medical knowledge. This is, of course, subject to change and reinterpretation as more is learned about AIDS and as the prevalence of HIV infection, ARC, and AIDS increases. Certainly, it is not an issue that has been resolved by Leckelt and Glover, but these cases have brought more insight into the proper role of HIV testing of health care workers in light of current medical and legal knowledge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Inhibiting or holding back one's thoughts, feelings, or behaviors is associated with long-term stress and disease. Actively confronting upsetting experiences can reduce the negative effects of inhibition. The present study describes a unique approach to aid individuals in dealing with psychological and emotional issues that they must often face. Forty-one of the 81 university employees who were participating in a wellness program agreed to participate in the present study. Subjects were randomly assigned to write about either personal traumatic experiences (n = 23) or non-traumatic topics (n = 18) for 20 minutes once a week for four consecutive weeks. Results indicate that individuals who wrote about upsetting personal experiences evidenced significant drops in selected blood measures compared to those who wrote about non-traumatic topics (e.g., for SGOT: 4.0% drop among traumatic topic group versus 13.1% increase among non-traumatic topic group, ANOVA p = .029; for SGPT: 24.5% drop versus 7.7% increase, p = .001). During the month of writing, traumatic topic group subjects evidenced a 28.6% reduction in absentee rates from work relative to the eight months before the experiment compared with a 48.5% increase in absentee rates among non-traumatic topic subjects (p = .04). Subjects low in emotional inhibition evidenced the greatest reductions in absentee rates following personal disclosure compared to those high in emotional inhibition (p = .011). The proposed writing strategy offers a unique tool for health promotion practitioners.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study examined the relation between personal striving level and psychological and physical well-being. Level refers to the degree of generality versus specificity of one's goal strivings. In 3 studies, 188 Ss generated lists of their personal strivings, which were then rated on specificity level. High-level striving was associated with more psychological distress, particularly depression. Low-level striving was related to higher levels of physical illness. Correlations between striving level and self-reported symptoms were generally not as strong as those between level and the more objective illness indicators. High-level strivings were seen as more difficult and requiring more effort than low-level strivings. Results are interpreted in terms of control theory, goal-setting theory, and the repressive personality style.

The present article reports the results of a study of 550 Shawinigan Cégep students enrolled in their first year of college. The study attempts to establish the prevalence of suicidal behaviours and to describe predisposing factors identified by the authors such as family problems, lack of social support, depression, stressful events having a negative impact, and attitudes toward life and death. The information was gathered using a questionnaire combining several elements: (a) a questionnaire similar to the one used by Lamontagne (1986) and Tousignant, Bastien, Hamel, and Hanigan (1986) to identify family problems; (b) the Sarason, Levine, Basham, and Sarason (1983) Social Support Questionnaire, translated and adapted by De Man (1986), which evaluates social support; (c) the Aneshensel, Clark, and Fredrichs test (1983) which indicates the presence or absence of depression; (d) the Sarason, Johnson, and Siegel (1978) Life Experience Survey, measuring the quantity of stressful events experienced, and their impact on personal life; and (e) Beck's (1979) Scale of Suicide Ideation which measures attitudes toward life and death. Two questions were added for the present study: Did you ever attempt suicide? If yes, how many times? Three hundred and fifty-five students answered the questionnaire, making the level of participation 71% (355/550). Participants were divided into four groups: those having made a suicidal attempt (n = 28) or planned suicide (n = 16), those having a score of 30 or more on the test relating to suicidal ideation (n = 18), and those regarded as "normal" (n = 278). The cut-off point of 30 on the scale of of suicidal ideation was determined by averaging the scores of those who made a suicide attempt and confirmed by a discriminant analysis. The students who had attempted suicide had major family problems, lacked social support, presented depressive tendencies, and had experienced stressful events having a negative impact on their lives. Furthermore, they manifested problems in their attitudes toward life and death. However, the study did not determine the contribution of each variable. The participants who had planned suicide, at first sight, did not seem to present more problems than those designated "normal," which seems astonishing. This was explained by the fact that the planned suicide was not recent or was a cry for help which found a response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Women with a family history of breast cancer are at increased risk for developing the disease. This study investigated the beliefs of women at high risk for breast cancer (one or more first-degree relatives with breast cancer) about their breast cancer risk and the impact of this information on their surveillance behaviors and psychological distress. The Health Belief Model and the Fear Arousing Communications Theory were used in this study. Two hundred and seventeen women, enrolled in a breast protection program, completed a questionnaire regarding health beliefs and behaviors, social support, and psychological distress. While 94% came in for regularly scheduled mammograms, only 69% came in for regular clinical breast examinations. A discriminant function analysis revealed that increased cancer anxiety decreased regular clinical examinations (coefficient = -.65). Only 40% performed breast self-examination monthly, 10% never performed breast self-examination, and 50% did not perform breast self-examination regularly. High breast self-examination performance prior to coming to the program was the best predictor of current breast self-examination, and high anxiety predicted poor adherence to monthly breast self-examination (multiple R = .61). More than 27% of the women at high risk were defined as having a level of psychological distress consistent with the need for counseling. Women reporting more barriers to screening, fewer social supports, and low social desirability had more psychological distress (multiple R = .75). Higher anxiety was directly related to poor attendance at a clinical breast examination and poor adherence to monthly breast self-examination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Several controlled trials have shown that the dopamine agonist, Trivastal (piribedil), is active in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, particularly with regard to tremor. To determine its efficacy as monotherapy in patients previously untreated with levodopa, a 3-month multicentre study was conducted with Trivastal 50 mg LP in 113 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The study population consisted of 66 men and 47 women, aged 63.1, SD 0.6 (43-79) years with a 2.1, SD 0.2 (1-15) year history of Parkinson's disease. Mean disease stage was 1.82 (1-4) by the Hoehn and Yahr classification. Tremor was the predominant clinical feature in 42 patients; the remaining 71 patients displayed the full parkinsonian syndrom. Trivastal 50 mg LP was prescribed stepwise up to doses of 150-250 (207, SD 6.4) mg/day at the end of 3 months. No concomitant anti-parkinsonian medication was given. Patients were clinically assessed at 1, 2 and 3 months on the Webster scale, a specific tremor scale and the HARD depression scale. Mean results were as follows in the 90 patients completing the study. On the Webster scale, tremor fell from 1.7 to 1 (-41%, P less than 0.001), bradykinesia from 1.5 to 0.8 (-47%, P less than 0.001) and rigidity from 1.3 to 0.9 (-31%, P less than 0.001); on the specific scale, rest tremor decreased in daily duration and amplitude from 3.9 to 2.4 (-39%, P less than 0.001) and from 2.9 to 2.1 (-35%, P less than 0.001), respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

From the findings summarized in this review, it appears that there is little evidence in support of the inverted-U hypothesis. Available research indicates that there is considerable variability in the optimal precompetition anxiety responses among athletes, which does not conform to the inverted-U hypothesis. Many athletes appear to perform best when experiencing high levels of anxiety and interventions that act to produce quiescence may actually worsen the performance of this group. These findings indicate that there is a need to shift the research paradigm away from theories of anxiety and performance based on task characteristics or group effects and, instead, employ theoretical models that account for individual differences. Hanin's [39, 40] ZOF theory appears to be a good candidate for furthering our knowledge in this area. It was developed on the basis of research with athletes and it explicitly incorporates the concept of individual differences in the anxiety-performance relationship. Most important, because an individual's optimal range of anxiety is precisely defined, the validity of ZOF theory can be directly examined through hypothesis testing, whereas it has been argued that the inverted-U hypothesis is effectively shielded against falsification [84]. Although the findings of ZOF theory indicate that a significant percentage of athletes perform best at high levels of anxiety, Hanin's translated writings do not provide an explanation of why this is so. Further research is clearly indicated, but one explanation for this finding may involve how the athlete interprets or conceptualizes anxiety. For example, Mahoney and Avener [64] found that, although the absolute level of precompetition anxiety was similar between successful and unsuccessful Olympic gymnasts, there were differences in the way the athletes conceptualized the anxiety they were experiencing. The better performers viewed their anxiety as desirable, whereas anxiety was associated with self-doubts and catastrophizing in the unsuccessful gymnasts. Similar differences have been observed in the test anxiety literature where it has been found that poorer test takers perceive their anxiety to be more threatening and debilitating than do better performers [45]. Furthermore, temporal differences in the patterning of anxiety [64], fear responses, or cardiorespiratory measures [28] have been found between successful and unsuccessful performers; this may reflect a difference in the ability to regulate anxiety. It may also be the case that performance is not so much affected by the absolute level of precompetition anxiety as the consistency in the anxiety level across competitions. Athletes may also develop coping strategies that exploit consistent changes in attentional focus that result from elevated anxiety.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This study addressed the commonly held, but seldom tested, notion that faster rates of increase of drug effects are associated with more positive subjective effects. Sodium pentobarbital was administered to normal healthy volunteers in either a single oral dose or in a series of divided, cumulating doses, and subjective responses were monitored. Twelve subjects participated in three weekly sessions, during which they received capsules containing placebo, 150 mg pentobarbital in a single dose (SIN) or 180 mg pentobarbital administered in six divided doses (DIV) of 30 mg every 30 min. Doses of pentobarbital in the SIN and DIV were selected to produce similar peak plasma levels. Blood samples were obtained at regular intervals for plasma drug level determinations, and throughout the session subjects completed self-report mood questionnaires (e.g., Profile of Mood States, visual analog ratings of drug liking and drug "high") and psychomotor performance tests (e.g., Digit Symbol Substitution Test). As expected, the SIN and DIV conditions yielded similar peak levels of pentobarbital, but the peak was attained more rapidly in the SIN condition. Despite the similarity in peak plasma levels, subjects reached greater peaks in ratings of "high" and wanted more of the drug when they were in the SIN condition. On an end-of-session liking questionnaire they also reported significantly greater liking of the drug in the SIN condition. On other measures of drug effects (e.g., sedation and psychomotor impairment) no significant differences were observed between the conditions. Thus, the rate of increase of the drug's effects specifically influenced subjects' ratings on subjective measures (e.g., "high" and liking) that may be associated with risk for abuse.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The hypothesis of specific cognitive dynamics in schizophrenics is derived and tested in this study. This cognitive style should be characterized by a reduction of cognitive ambiguity and could be demonstrated in borderline patients in a previous study. This hypothesis is tested by applying Ertel's (1972) DOTA-dictionary to responses of 25 acute and 25 chronic schizophrenics in the Holtzman Inkblot Technique. Furthermore the level of abstractness of the responses is investigated with the method of Günther and Groeben (1978). According to the results both groups of schizophrenics had a significantly higher "Dogmatismus-Quotient" (Ertel, 1972) than a sample of neurotics, but did not differ from borderline patients. Both acute and chronic schizophrenics used significantly less abstract nouns than borderline patients and neurotics. In contrast to borderline patients the reduction of cognitive ambiguity in schizophrenics is not connected with strong affects of anxiety and hostility.

Alexithymia is a concept created by Sifneos in 1972 to describe a disturbance in affective and cognitive functions characterised by an inability to find words to describe feelings or emotions. The term "alexithymia" is derived from the Greek and means "no words for feelings". The salient clinical features of alexithymia include difficulties recognizing and verbalizing feelings, endless description of physical symptoms instead of emotions, concrete speech and thougth closely tied to external events, paucity of fantasy life. Precisely, alexithymia is an inability to associate one's visual image, thoughts and fantasies with a specific emotional state. For Sifneos, "emotions" and "feelings" are different facts. He differentiates "visceral emotions" (biologic side of the affect and lying in structures of the limbic system as the hippocampus and the amygdaloid complex) and "feelings emotions" (psychologic side of the affect). For him, animals experience "visceral emotion", but only human experience "feeling emotions". Alexithymia is regarded as one of several possible risk factors that seem to increase the susceptibility to physical disease. Alexithymia describes some psychological features which has been initially described by Marty and Psychosomatic French School: a specific cognitive style characterized by a lack of absence of fantasies and a preoccupation with the minute details of external events ("pensée opératoire"). Alexithymia is a difficult concept to operationalize and only few instruments are sufficiently reliable and valid. Several scales are used to measure alexithymia but only the Beth Israel Questionnaire (BIQ) and the Toronto Alexithymie Scale (TAS) can be regarded as having sufficient psychometric properties. The first questionnaire, the BIQ--a scale created by Sifneos--, is the most widely used instrument which is a 17-items forced-choice questionnaire completed by the interviewer. The TAS is a 26-items self-report measure rated on a five-point Likert scale. The Shalling Sifneos Psychosomatic Scale (SSPS) and the M.M.P.I. Alexithymia Scale lack of validation and reliability. Furthermore the SSPS and the MMPI AS show little or no relation with BIQ or with TAS, thus limiting the comparability and generalizability of results from the studies that use them. The TAS is considered as internally consistent and to have a stable, replicable factor structure. Other measures as content analysis test, projective test (Rorschach, T.AT., SAT9) or others self-assessment questionnaires are not frequently used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

In a previous paper, in which the experimental conditions of the present research are fully described (Parrot et al., this issue), heart rate (HR) was studied in 60 male and in 60 female subjects in response to a pile-driver noise (P), a gunfire noise (G), a road traffic noise (T), and an intermittent pink noise (R), all noises being emitted at the same LAeq = 75 dB for 15 min. Digital pulse level (PL) responses were concomitantly surveyed by the use of pulse oximetry, allowing continuous arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) readings. An index of pulse reactivity (PRI) could be calculated. Arterial blood pressure was measured 7 times from the beginning to the end of each trial. At rest, within the last minutes preceding each exposure to any of the 4 noises, no difference for conditions or for age in prestimulus PL was observed. In all cases, sex is a highly significant source of variation: Mean resting SaO2 values are higher in women than in men. Mean SaO2 at rest was also found to be significantly higher in anxious (Am) than in anxiety-free (Nm) men. When the noise was on for 15 min, increase in PL prevailed to be in most cases in men. In contrast, decrease or near-zero changes prevailed in 1 case out of 2 in the female subgroups. In all groups, the mean PRIs are significantly higher in men. In no case did the age factor prove to be a significant source of PRI variation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study aimed at comparing for their cardiovascular effects: a pile-driver noise (P), a gunfire noise (G), a road traffic noise (T), an intermittent pink noise (R). All noises were presented at the same LAeq = 75 dB for 15 min each. Some 120 subjects were divided into 8 subgroups of 15 subjects each: OM (men between 40 and 50 years of age), OF (women, same age range), YM (men, between 15 and 20 years of age), YF (women, same age range), AM (typically anxious men, 20-25 years of age), AF (typically anxious women, same age range), NM (typically anxiety-free men, same age range), and NF (typically anxiety-free women, same age range). Heart rate (HR), digital pulse level, and arterial blood pressure were surveyed before, during, and after exposure to each of the four noises. As regards HR, in subjects at rest, within 5 min preceding exposure to any of the four noises, no differences in prestimulus HR was observed for conditions, age, sex, or anxiety. When the noise was on, the overall HR response was one of increase in all subjects except in OF with G and R noises. In all cases, men provided significantly more important HR responses to noise than women did, indicated by increase in HR, whatever the age. Significantly different HR responses to the different noises were produced by YM and OM. As to the importance of the HR responses induced by them (from the most important to the lesser), noises rank as follows: T, P, G, and R.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Rats were trained to respond on one lever following an injection of saline and the alternate lever after the anxiogenic drug pentylenetetrazol (PTZ 20 mg/kg), according to a fixed ratio (FR10) schedule of food reinforcement. The trained animals were then administered dependence-producing regimens of either cocaine (20 mg/kg, [IP], three times daily for 7 days) or ethanol (mixed 4.5% w/v with sweetened liquid diet given for 5 days). Separate groups of trained rats were given either subthreshold regimens of cocaine (20 mg/kg, IP, three times daily for 5 days), ethanol (2.25% w/v of the diet given for 5 days), or both. Additional groups were matched for control groups. After discontinuation of these regimens, rats were administered test injections of either saline or cocaine, and tested for elicitation of the PTZ-stimulus at selected intervals of withdrawal. After a saline injection, maximum elicitation of the PTZ-stimulus was observed 12 hours following chronic treatment with the higher dose of ethanol, and 120 hours following longer treatment with cocaine. During those periods of withdrawal when a saline injection failed to produce a PTZ-like stimulus, a test injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg) elicited the PTZ-stimulus in the ethanol withdrawn rats, although only partially eliciting the PTZ-stimulus in the cocaine withdrawn group. In the pair-fed controls, or rats withdrawn from the smaller dosage of either ethanol or cocaine, the test dose of saline or cocaine did not elicit the PTZ-stimulus; only 30% of rats selected the PTZ-appropriate level at the highest dose of cocaine tested (10 mg/kg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

100 male and female patients, aged 20 to 60 years with the diagnosis alcohol-addiction (ICD 9 No 303.0) took part in a longitudinal treatment evaluation study. Consecutive admissions from May '83 until July '85 were assessed. All patients participated in a 6-week inpatient group therapy and a 6-week outpatient treatment for alcohol-dependent patients at the Psychiatric University Hospital in Munich. Assessments were performed at the following times: 1. on admission, 2. at the end of inpatient therapy, 3. at the end of outpatient therapy, 4. at a 6-month follow-up and 5. at an 18-month follow-up. The major goals of the study were as follows: 1. Descriptive analysis of the course of illness from admission to the 18-month follow-up; 2. Analysis of the influence of the social setting at home (relationship, attitude of the family towards the patient) (Kreisman's Patient Rejection Scale) and expression of emotions in the family according to the "Camberwell Family Interview" (CFI); 3. Evaluation of the effect of the additional treatment component (A) "Systematic involvement of the significant other" as compared to an alternative component (B) "Systematic encouragement of the patient in self-help initiatives"; 4. Identification of risk factors for relapse and predictors of good prognosis that can be used to improve the therapeutic concept. The sample consisted of 42% women and 58% men, with a mean age of 37.9 years. Only patients who had a spouse or another close relative were accepted for participation in the study. At the beginning of the study 48% of the patients were married, 18% divorced, 27% unmarried and 6% lived separately or were widowed. 95 of the 100 patients could be reassessed at discharge from inpatient therapy, 92 at the end of 6-week outpatient treatment phase, 91 at the 6-month follow-up and 90 at the 18-month follow-up. The additional treatment components (A versus B) showed no major differences in effect. Significant changes in the patients attitude, behaviour and psychopathology were observed for patients receiving either one of the additional treatment components (A or B). The lack of differing effects from the additional treatment components is plausible, because the main part of the therapy (without the additional therapy component) was the same in both groups; this basic therapy took up most treatment time and by itself brought about major changes in personality scales, psychopathology and partnership interactions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This study was carried out in response to reports from nurses to a post-neonatal mortality review committee that a number of mothers of infants dying from sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) appeared to be depressed before the child's death. The New Zealand Cot Death Study was a 3 year multicentre case-control study for SIDS. There were 485 SIDS cases in the post-neonatal age group in the study regions, and these were compared with 1800 control infants. Infants of mothers with either a self-reported use of medication for psychiatric disorders, a history of hospitalization for psychiatric illness or a family history of postnatal depression had a significantly increased risk of SIDS compared with infants of mothers who were either not using medication (odds ratio (OR) = 1.45; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.03, 2.04) or were without a history of hospitalization for psychiatric illness (OR = 1.80; 95% CI = 1.03, 3.11) or a family history of postnatal depression (OR = 1.61; 95% CI = 1.06, 2.43). All mothers of infants born in the study areas over a 1 year period were eligible to complete a questionnaire measuring maternal depression when the infant was 4 weeks of age. Thirty-three infants subsequently died from SIDS, and they were compared with 174 controls. Fifteen (45.5%) of the mothers of cases were depressed, compared with 28 (16.1%) of the mothers of controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In the discussion of possible factors in the etiology of Graves' disease, stress has always played a major role. We investigated the possible influence of present depression (depressivity scale DS) and anxiety (State Trait Angstinventar STAI X1) on peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations in 10 patients with Graves' disease. The tests were done in hyperthyroidism and after 2-4 months in stable euthyroidism. Parallel to the psychometric testing, peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations were investigated. Elevated anxiety as a constant personality trait was investigated with the State Trait Angstinventar STAI X2 in 19 hyperthyroid patients with Graves' disease. 5 of the 10 patients had a pathological T4:T8 ratio and very high raw values for present anxiety (mean = 53,8; STAI X1), as well as a a high percentile for depression (median 93,1; DS). The other 5 patients with a normal T4:T8 ratio had much lower values for anxiety (mean = 37,8; STAI X1) and depression (median 78,4; DS). In those patients, the T4:T8 ratio remained normal in stable euthyroidism, while the values for anxiety and depression decreased. This also happened in the patients with a formerly pathologic T4:T8 ratio. However, the pathologic T4:T8 ratio persisted in those patients. The STAI X2 percentage ranking for the 19 hyperthyroid patients was 76,5. The value for healthy people is 55,5. Therefore a significantly elevated anxiety--representing a constantly elevated internal psychological stress--seems to be present in patients with Graves' disease. Since psychological stress is known to influence the immune system, such a constant personality trait could be a predisposing factor for Graves' disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To determine the prevalence of urinary incontinence, a questionnaire was administered to 2,911 women by 60 general practitioners, in April and May 1989. The first 50 women seen by the physician in his practice were included in the study. 1,075 women out of 2,911 (37%) declared the presence of episodes of incontinence. Among these 1,075 women, 77% had genuine stress incontinence, 60% urge incontinence, 35% spontaneous leakage. One out of five had these three conditions together. 12% of women with incontinence were less than 31 years of age, 36% were between 31 and 51 years, 20% between 51 and 70 years, and 31% above 70 years. Incontinent women were more frequently post-menopausal; 83% had children (74% for those without incontinence), but the parity was comparable in the two groups. Perineal tears, use of forceps for delivery, high-birth-weight children (above 3,500 g) were more frequently found in incontinent women; but not episiotomy. Incontinent women had more urinary infections, were more often obese, were slightly older at their first childbirth. Post-partum incontinence was found more frequently in incontinent women. A positive association is found with the presence of diabetes, neurological diseases, and chronic bronchitis and cough. Incontinent women more frequently underwent a gynecological surgical procedure, particularly hysterectomies. Incontinence had been present for more than 5 years in 34% of cases, one year in 77% of cases. Only 47 women out of 2,911 (1.6%) consulted specifically for their incontinence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

After an initial placebo week, 37 depressed inpatients were treated with the fixed dose of 75 mg clomipramine b.d. A sparteine test was carried out during the placebo period and again during the second week of active therapy. Blood for drug assay was collected at the end of the inter-dose interval in the (morning) at weekly intervals. Clomipramine and four metabolites (desmethylclomipramine, didesmethylclomipramine, 8-hydroxyclomipramine, and 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine) in plasma were assayed by reversed phase HPLC. The clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine steady-state plasma levels varied by factors of 11 and 9, respectively, and the clomipramine/8-hydroxyclomipramine and desmethylclomipramine/8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine ratios both varied by 7-fold. During the placebo week, 36 patients were phenotyped as extensive metabolizers (EM) (metabolic ratio, MR, 0.1-2.0), and one patient was phenotyped as a poor metabolizer (PM) (MR > 300). During clomipramine treatment, one patient changed phenotype from EM to PM (MR = 140). In the EM, the median of the MR increased from 0.4 to 2.3. There was a statistically significant correlation between the MR before and during clomipramine treatment, even when the PM was excluded. Neither the steady-state plasma clomipramine levels nor the clomipramine/desmethylclomipramine ratios showed a significant correlation with the MR. In contrast, the desmethylclomipramine and didesmethylclomipramine steady-state levels and the desmethylclomipramine/8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine and clomipramine/8-hydroxyclomipramine ratios showed a significant positive correlation with the MR. The PM had the highest steady-state plasma desmethylclomipramine level and the highest desmethylclomipramine/8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine ratio. These correlation coefficients (rs) were generally increased when the correlation analyses were based on the MR obtained during clomipramine treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of diazepam (5 mg t.i.d.), suriclone (0.2 and 0.4 mg t.i.d.) and placebo (t.i.d.) were assessed in 12 normal, healthy volunteer subjects after a single dose and after treatment for a period of 8 days. A battery of physiological, psychomotor and subjective tests was administered on days 1 and 8 both before and after drug and after a measured dose of ethanol. The effects of diazepam on the EEG were characteristic of benzodiazepines-a decrease in the slow frequency wave-bands, an increase in fast frequency wave-band and diminished evoked response amplitude. Suriclone had similar effects on fast frequency activity and evoked response amplitude but, in contrast to diazepam, also increased the slow frequency wave-bands after 7 days treatment. Some improvements in performance were seen with suriclone on critical flicker fusion, tapping speed, spiral maze and digit cancellation. In contrast, suriclone impaired performance to a greater extent than diazepam on digit symbol substitution and symbol copying. Body sway was also enhanced by suriclone to a greater extent than diazepam. Subjective ratings for mood and adverse-effects showed few differences between suriclone or diazepam. However, suriclone caused greater gastro-intestinal disturbances than diazepam, especially after ethanol, and subjects rated themselves as more antagonistic and more irritable on suriclone. Ratings for calmness suggested that in contrast to diazepam, suriclone had no anxiolytic effect. Several of the parameters tested showed a build up of effect with diazepam over the treatment period which was not seen with suriclone. It is suggested that this difference may be due to differences in elimination rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of the present study was two-fold. Firstly, to present a more comprehensive analysis of the disinhibitory effects of 5-HT1A receptor agonists after discrete dorsal raphe (DRN) injections (Higgins et al. 1988). Secondly, the effects of the 5-HT1B receptor agonist CGS12066B and the 5-HT1B/1C agonist mCPP were examined following injection into this nucleus. The increases in social interaction (SI) induced by intra-raphe injections of 8-OH DPAT (0.02-1 micrograms), buspirone (0.04-0.2 microgram), ipsapirone (0.2 microgram) and gepirone (0.2-1 micrograms) under a high light unfamiliar paradigm (HLU) were typically due to increased bout frequency, duration and a higher incidence of sniff, follow, allogroom behaviour. These increases were qualitatively similar to those seen in control animals tested under low light/familiar (LLF) conditions, thus supporting the belief that the drug-induced increases in SI reflected decreases in anxiety. Furthermore, at doses effective under the HLU condition, 8-OH DPAT, buspirone and gepirone failed to modify SI under conditions of minimal suppression (LLF paradigm). At doses which significantly increased punished responding in a water-lick conflict test 8-OH DPAT, ipsapirone and gepirone tended to also increase unpunished rates of drinking. However, in drug untreated rats, prior habituation to the test apparatus also increased unpunished drinking, suggesting some neophobia-induced suppression. At a comparatively high dose, the 5-HT1B agonist CGS12066B (2.5 micrograms), but not the putative 5-HT1B/1C agonist mCPP (0.5-12.5 micrograms), increased SI under the HLU condition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Older people engage in social interaction less frequently than their younger counterparts. As I mentioned at the start, the change has been interpreted in largely negative terms. Yet when asked about their social relationships, older people describe them as satisfying, supportive, and fulfilling. Marriages are less negative and more positive. Close relationships with siblings are renewed, and relationships with children are better than ever before. Even though older people interact with others less frequently than younger people do, old age is not a time of misery, rigidity, or melancholy. Rather than present a paradox, I argue here that decreasing rates of contact reflect a reorganization of the goal hierarchies that underlie motivation for social contact and lead to greater selectivity in social partners. This reorganization does not occur haphazardly. Self-definition, information seeking, and emotion regulation are ranked differently depending not only on past experiences, but on place in the life cycle and concomitant expectations about the future. I contend that the emphasis on emotion in old age results from a recognition of the finality of life. In most people's lives this does not appear suddenly in old age but occurs gradually across adulthood. At times, however, life events conspire to bring about endings more quickly. Whether as benign as a geographical relocation or as sinister as a fatal disease, endings heighten the salience of surrounding emotions. When each interaction with a grandchild or good-bye kiss to a spouse may be the last, a sense of poignancy may permeate even the most casual everyday experiences. When the regulation of emotion assumes greatest priority among social motives, social partners are carefully chosen. The most likely choices will be long-term friends and loved ones, because they are most likely to provide positive emotional experiences and affirm the self. Information seeking will motivate some social behavior, but for reasons discussed previously, this will also require judicious choices of social partners. Narrowing the range of social partners allows people to conserve physical and cognitive resources, freeing time and energy for selected social relationships. As such, SST is highly consistent with the selective optimization with compensation model of successful aging formulated by P. Baltes and M. Baltes (1990) described above. SST is meant to describe and explain the underlying mechanisms for age-related changes in social behavior. It is not intended to be prescriptive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

In this study we assessed the role of psychological factor in the etiology of coronary vasospasm using the Cornell Medical Index (CMI), focusing attention on the relationship between stress and serum magnesium (Mg). The study subjects consisted of 25 patients with variant angina (VA), 32 with old myocardial infarction without vasospasm (OMI), and 34 healthy men (controls). On a neurosis-discriminative diagram of CMI, areas I and II were considered as normal and areas III and IV were considered to be a neurotic disorder. The stress test included exercise and a quiz. Exercise test was performed in 8 patients with VA, 6 with OMI, and 5 controls, and a quiz was given to 4 patients with VA. Plasma catecholamines [noradrenaline (NA), adrenaline (Ad), dopamine], aldosterone, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and serum electrolytes (Mg, Ca, Na, K, Cl) were measured before and after exposures to stress. The following results were obtained: 1) Of the patients with VA, 40.0% were categorized as area III or IV, compared to 18.7% of the patients with OMI, and 2.9% of the control subjects. 2) Among patients with VA, 64.0% exhibited anxiety states compatible with a psychological disorder. 3) NA and Ad were increased after exercise stress. 4) Serum Mg and Ca were also increased after exposure to exercise stress in all groups, and the degrees of these changes were correlated to the exercise intensity. The %delta Mg/%delta NA ratio, a parameter of the effect of catecholamine on the serum Mg, was greater in patients with VA than in those with OMI and the controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Existing methods to prospectively dose tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) require either specific test doses, precisely timed serum sampling, or both. We prospectively tested a new pharmacokinetic model that allows flexible dosing and sampling to determine maintenance requirements in patients receiving TCAs. Thirty-four patients entered the study. Drug concentrations were measured on the third day after starting TCA therapy. These values were analyzed using a Bayesian pharmacokinetic model to determine drug clearance and volume of distribution. This information was then used to predict the serum concentration resulting from a maintenance dose chosen by the psychiatrist. In phase I (n = 17), patients received imipramine without specific starting doses. Phase II (n = 17) was performed to provide a preliminary evaluation of the method in the usual clinical environment. In this phase, patients received either amitriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, doxepin (75 mg on day 1,100 mg on day 2), or nortriptyline (50 mg on day 1, 75 mg on day 2). Lower doses were allowed if clinically indicated. The predictability of future serum concentrations was then compared between the two phases. The mean prediction errors (model bias) in phases I and II were -15.5 +/- 27.3 and -12.3 +/- 21.8 ng/mL and were not different (p greater than 0.05). The absolute prediction errors (model precision) were 18.5 +/- 25.1 and 18.8 +/- 16.0 ng/mL and were not different (p greater than 0.05). Two slow metabolizers were identified (clearance less than 0.10 L/kg/h). This new method allows the determination of maintenance dose requirements early in therapy without standard test doses or specifically timed serum sampling.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The anticonflict activity of gepirone, a putative anxiolytic and antidepressant, was examined on three schedules which conditioned the suppression of licking. The novel schedules differed in the degree to which they predicted (signalled) the presentation of a conflict-inducing electric shock. Three doses of gepirone (1.25, 2.5, and 5 mg/kg SC) were evaluated on a predictable, a moderately predictable, and an unpredictable schedule of shock presentation. Gepirone induced a nondose-dependent increase from baseline in punished licking on the predictable schedule on the last two days of a five-day test period. The lowest dose (1.25 mg/kg) of gepirone induced a significant increase in punished licking on the moderately predictable schedule on the last two days of testing. The highest dose (5 mg/kg) induced initial decreases in overall responding on this schedule. However, responding returned to baseline over the course of the four days of testing. When administered to rats trained on an unpredictable schedule of shock presentation, all doses of gepirone induced an initial decrease from baseline. The lowest dose group returned to baseline control response levels over the next four days, whereas the suppressive effects of the higher doses persisted. The initial decrease in responding observed on all schedules may be due to the effects of gepirone on motor functioning. However, the 2.5-mg/kg dose induced a proconflict or anxiogenic effect on the last test day (decreased punished responding alone) on the unpredictable schedule, while inducing an anticonflict effect on the predictable one. The unpredictable schedule is sensitive to detecting decreases as well as increases in punished responding and as such may be a unique conflict model for evaluating novel anxiolytics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We have reviewed briefly the current status of research on central nervous system-immune system interactions, focusing attention on the neural and humoral pathways by which CNS and IS communicate and interact and on the effects of stress and psychiatric illness on immune function. It is evident that CNS-IS communication occurs by direct innervation of lymphoid organs and by means of hormones, neuropeptides and cytokines. There is also clear evidence that humoral substances each of which were thought to be the product of one specific cell type are elaborated and secreted by a variety of cell types. This observation suggests a new unified concept of CNS-IS interactions with mediators of these interactions being produced ubiquitously and acting on cells of the two systems. In examining the effects of stress on IS it has become apparent that stress of various types can have a depressive effect on immune functions, primarily at the level of T lymphocytes and NK cells. This suggests that the defense mechanisms affected by stress are those which are responsible for cytotoxic effector responses. These findings are interesting in that they support older studies implicating stress in the pathogenesis and/or the clinical course of neoplastic diseases. Further support for a role of stress-induced immunodepression in morbidity comes from a very interesting, recent prospective study showing that stress will affect susceptibility to viruses. Finally, exploration of the mechanisms of stress-induced immunodepression, suggests that a variety of mediators which regulate lymphocyte interactions and activation may be affected, perhaps at the level of gene expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a combination of mental and physical symptoms arising in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. The symptoms disappear after the onset of menstruation. During the rest of the follicular phase the patient is free from symptoms. The cyclical nature of the symptom variations is characteristic of the syndrome. The lack of a commonly accepted definition and a way to diagnose PMS has led to contradictory results in the search for its aetiology and treatment. The diagnosis of PMS should be based on prospective daily ratings of symptoms and defined criteria of subgroups. In our studies three subgroups can be identified. The "Pure PMS" group with significant cyclical symptoms being worse during the luteal phase and no symptoms during the follicular phase. A "Premenstrual aggravation" group with symptoms always present but with an aggravation premenstrually. A "Non-PMS" group of women who do not suffer from menstrual cycle related symptoms. These three groups show significant differences in the number of patients with an earlier psychiatric history and are different in the extent of neurosis on a personality test. The Pure PMS group had less neurosis and a lower frequency of patients with an earlier psychiatric history. In anovulatory cycles, whether induced or spontaneous, the cyclical nature of symptoms disappeared. This shows the important role that the corpus luteum has in precipitating symptoms in PMS. GnRH-agonists can be used to induce anovulation and this will stop the cyclical changes. Postmenopausal women receiving oestradiol/progestagen sequential treatment develop PMS-like symptoms when progestagen is added to the treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A real sense of loss is experienced by many middle managers as hospitals change their cultures and evolve toward participatory management. To work through the loss involved, managers need time and resources to grieve for the old as they learn the new. Although the grieving process is relatively straightforward, difficulty arises because the need to talk and grieve for the old occurs precisely when all attention and effort focuses on the new. Administrative groups may feel threatened by middle management's expression of grief. Unwillingness to acknowledge and support that grief may provoke greater anger and resistance, increasing the problems associated with change. In the long run, time spent grieving for the old will make the transition to the new that much smoother. Organizations will see a positive return from time spent in the grieving process. Inability to let go of the old is often at the root of the uneasiness, resistance, and lack of visible commitment to the new. Why should we not spend the required time appreciating and then letting go of the old even as we teach the new? As we progress to the learning organization, to a staff empowered to resolve problems and seize opportunities, let it be known that expressions of the staff's humanity will be tolerated. Mistakes will be much more acceptable than lack of effort for fear of error. In working together, better patient care can be attained along with personal and organizational strength. Recognizing Annette's, or any manager's or staff member's, loss and allowing the grief necessary to resolve that loss will benefit all.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To determine whether CNS regulatory pathways are organized so that differential sympathetic outflow patterns occur in response to stress, we injected various doses of neostigmine or bombesin into the third cerebral ventricle of fed rats, and then measured the hepatic venous plasma concentrations of glucose, glucagon, insulin, and epinephrine. The following four groups of rats were studied. Group 1 was intact rats. Group 2 comprised intact rats receiving the constant infusion of a) somatostatin to inhibit the endogenous secretion of insulin and glucagon, and b) insulin to maintain the plasma insulin concentration at basal levels. The infusion was started from -30 minutes and given via a catheter in the femoral vein. Group 3 consisted of rats that underwent bilateral adrenal medullectomy (ADMX) one week before the experiment. Group 4 was ADMX rats administered a constant infusion of somatostain with insulin through a femoral vein, as above. The administration of 1 x 10(-9) mol neostigmine caused hepatic venous hyperglycemia mediated by three distinct pathways: 1) direct innervation of the liver, 2) a direct action of epinephrine on the liver, and 3) the action of glucagon on the liver. We estimated the relative contribution of these three factors to be about 47, 32, and 21%, respectively. Relative contributions of three factors of the doses of 5 x 10(-9) and 5 x 10(-8) mol neostigmine demonstrated an effect similar to that of 1 x 10(-9) mol neostigmine. Epinephrine was shown to be the only agent involved in the hyperglycemic response to intraventricular bombesin at doses of 1 x 10(-10), 1 x 10(-9), and 1 x 10(-8) mol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study is to explore the womanhood and caring. To explore the meaning of caring for nursing, it is necessary to identify the terms of the relationship between caring and womanhood as these bonds have been formed over the last century. Historically, nurses were expected to act out of on obligation to care, taking on Caring more as an identity than as work, and expressing altruism without, thought of autonomy either at the bedside of in their profession. Not only did the role of nursing evolve from the mother's role in the family, but the family itself served as a modal for care in the hospital. Thus, Nurses, like others who perform what is defined as "womens'work" in own society, have had to content with what appears as a dichotomy between the duty to Care for others and the right to control their own activities in the name of caring. Nursing was to be, therefore, a woman's duty, not the job. Obligations and love, not the need of work, were to bind the Nurses bo her patient. Caring was to be an unpaid labour of Love Gender studies suggests a basis for caring the stresses individual discretion and values, acknowledging that the Nurses'right to Care should be given equal consideration with the physician's right to Cure. Nursing continues to struggle with the basis, and the value of caring. But the dilemma of nursing is too tied to society's broader problems of gender and class. Nurses will have both to create a new political understanding for the basis of caring and to find ways to gain the power to implement it.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

1. ICI 169,369 (2-(2-dimethylamino ethylthio)-3-phenyl quinoline) is a potent selective competitive antagonist of the 5-HT2 receptor in animal models. Effects of ICI 169,369 as single oral doses (80 and 120 mg) separated by 1 week, on the power spectrum of waking EEG, dark adapted pupil responses and sedation score, were studied in a double-blind, placebo controlled, randomised cross over within subject comparison, in six healthy male volunteers. 2. Pupillary responses were measured using a portable infrared pupillometer following 15 min dark adaptation, assessing resting vertical pupil diameter (RPD), light constricted diameter (MPD) and recovered final diameter (FPD) at the end of a 3 s measurement cycle. 3. Both doses of ICI 169,369 produced a mean 36% (range 10-54%) decrease in log 10 power of the waking EEG alpha activity with eyes closed (P less than 0.02), and mean 38% (range 2-86%) increase in theta activity at 2 h compared with placebo. 4. Both 80 and 120 mg doses of ICI 169,369 reduced RPD by approximately 30% from a predose value of 6.25 mm (+/- 0.87; 95% CI) and from placebo values 6.41 mm (+/- 1.06) and 7.48 mm (+/- 1.49) at 3 and 5 h after dosing. MPD was reduced by 50% with the 120 mg dose at 5 h after dosing (placebo 5.2 mm; ICI 169,369 2.7 mm; P less than 0.05). FPD was significantly reduced (P less than 0.01) by both doses at 3 h after dosing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A series of recent studies in our laboratory have provided evidence that opioid peptides powerfully suppress feline affective defense behavior at the level of the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the central (CE) nucleus of the amygdala constitutes a significant inhibitory input to the PAG which utilizes enkephalins as its neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. Cannula-electrodes were implanted into the PAG for the elicitation of affective defense behavior as well as for infusion of opioid antagonists. Monopolar stimulating electrodes were also implanted into the central, lateral and medial amygdaloid nuclei from which suppression or facilitation of affective defense behavior could be obtained. Initially, 4 trials of concurrent, subseizure stimulation of the CE or lateral amygdala at very low (100 microA, 60 Hz) currents and PAG resulted in an immediate suppression of this response which displayed a time dependent decline after 30 min. In the next stage of the experiment, naloxone (2.7, 18.9 and 27.5 nM) was microinjected through the cannula-electrode into the PAG affective defense site and the experimental procedures noted above were repeated. Naloxone treatment (at 27.5 and 18.9 nM) blocked the suppressive effects of CE and lateral amygdaloid stimulation in a dose and time dependent manner. Further analysis revealed that this effect is likely mediated via the mu receptor since the suppressive effects of amygdaloid stimulation were blocked by the selective mu antagonist, beta-Funaltrexamine (0.05 and 0.2 nM) but not by the selective delta-antagonist, ICI 174,864 (0.7 nM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Mitral valve prolapse is a common cardiac disorder that can readily be diagnosed by characteristic auscultatory and echocardiographic criteria. Although many diseases have been associated with mitral valve prolapse, most affected individuals have the primary form of the disorder. Mitral valve prolapse is an inherited condition commonly associated with myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve and its support structures. Complications of mitral valve prolapse, including cardiac arrhythmias, sudden death, infective endocarditis, severe mitral regurgitation (with or without chordae tendineae rupture), and cerebral ischemic events, occur infrequently considering the wide prevalence of the disorder. Panic disorder is a specific type of anxiety disorder characterized by at least three panic attacks within a 3-week period or one panic attack followed by fear of subsequent panic attacks for at least 1 month. It too is a common condition with a prevalence and age and gender distribution similar to that of mitral valve prolapse. Panic disorder and mitral valve prolapse share many nonspecific symptoms, including chest pain or discomfort, palpitations, dyspnea, effort intolerance, and pre-syncope. Chest pain is the symptom in both conditions that most commonly brings the patient to medical attention. The clinical description of chest pain in patients with mitral valve prolapse is highly variable, possibly reflecting multiple etiologies. Chest pain in panic disorder is usually characterized as atypical angina pectoris and as such bears resemblance to the chest pain commonly described by patients with mitral valve prolapse. Multiple investigative attempts to elucidate the mechanism of chest pain in both conditions have failed to identify a unifying cause. Review of the literature leaves little doubt that mitral valve prolapse and panic disorder frequently co-occur. Given the similarities in their symptomatology, a high rate of co-occurrence is, in fact, entirely predictable. There is, however, no convincing evidence of a cause-effect relationship between the two disorders, nor has a single pathophysiologic or biochemical mechanism been identified that unites these two common conditions. Until specific biologic markers for these disorders are identified, it may be impossible to do so. The lack of a proven cause-and-effect relationship between mitral valve prolapse and panic disorder and the absence of a unifying mechanism do not diminish the clinical significance of the high rate of co-occurrence between the two conditions. Primary care physicians and cardiologists frequently encounter patients with mitral valve prolapse and nonspecific symptoms with no discernible objective cause who fail to respond to beta-blockade. Panic disorder should be considered as a possible explanation for symptoms in such patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The purposes of this article were to provide insight into the process of ethics and ethical inquiry and to explore the ethical issues of culpability and pain management/control. Critical care nurses who currently care for vascular patients identified these issues as occurring frequently in their practice. Authors in critical care nursing generally have limited the process of ethical inquiry to a theoretical framework built around an ethic of principles. The message many critical care nurses heard was that this one type of theoretical ethical framework was the totality of ethics. The application of these principles was ethical inquiry. For some nurses, the ethic of principles is sufficient. For others, an ethic of principles is either incomplete or foreign. This second group of nurses may believe that they have no moral voice if the language of ethics is only the language of principles. The language of principles, however, is not the only theoretical framework available. There is also the ethic of care, and ethical inquiry can include the application of that framework. Indeed, the language of the ethic of care may give a voice to nurses who previously felt morally mute. In fact, these two theoretical frameworks are not the only frameworks available to nurses. There is also virtue ethics, a framework not discussed in this article. A multiplicity of ethical frameworks is available for nurses to use in analyzing their professional and personal dilemmas. Recognizing that multiplicity, nurses can analyze their ethical dilemmas more comprehensively and effectively. Applying differing ethical frameworks can result in the same conclusions. This was the case for the issue of culpability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Questionnaires regarding experience, hearsay, and perceptions of anxiety toward eight dental treatments were distributed to a general patient population. Data revealed that among 349 respondents 35% heard that root canal therapy was the most unpleasant dental treatment, whereas 29% listed oral surgery treatment as having the worst reputation. However, 53% of those experiencing oral surgery treatment stated that an oral surgery treatment was the most unpleasant treatment whereas only 17% experiencing root canal therapy stated the same for root canal therapy. On the basis of anxiety scores, root canal therapy and oral surgery treatment were categorized in the high-anxiety category, crowns, dentures, and fillings in the moderate-anxiety category, and cleaning, sick call, and examination in the low-anxiety category. The anxiety levels of root canal therapy and oral surgery treatment were then analyzed as they related to different experience groups (combinations of root canal therapy and oral surgery and experience), hearsay experience, and most unpleasant experience with root canal therapy and oral surgery. Patients having experience with root canal therapy or oral surgery treatment had lower anxiety levels toward these respective treatments than did those who had no such experience. Patients who have heard negative stories (hearsay) of root canal therapy and oral surgery showed higher levels of anxiety toward these respective treatments than did those who have not heard such stories. But former endodontic patients who had heard negative stories about root canal therapy actually recorded lower anxiety levels toward root canal therapy than those patients with no negative hearsay experience.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The efficacy of antidepressants is well established in major depressions, especially those with melancholic features. However, some anxiolytics also appear to have antidepressant properties at least for outpatients. 118 outpatients (25 males, 93 females, age: 18-60) with major depression according to DSM-III criteria, neither melancholic nor suicidal, reaching at least 27 on Montgomery and Asberg depression rating scale (MADRS) and 19 on Hamilton anxiety rating scale (HARS) accepted to participate this double blind study carried out by 15 G.P.s coordinated by 3 psychiatrists. After a one week placebo wash-out-single-blind period, they were randomly, double blind, assigned to one of the two following groups: PR treated with prazepam (30-60 mg), a benzodiazepine anxiolytic or CL treated clomipramine, an imipramine antidepressant (75-150 mg). Patients were evaluated at days 0, 7, 14, and 28, using MADRS, HARS, Clinical Global Impression and Hopkins symptoms check list 58. In addition, G.P.s had to meet monthly for a case discussion group. groups were comparable at day 0. A highly significant improvement of MADRS and HARS scores (p less than 0.001) was observed in the total population. For the completer population evolution was also significantly positive in all the parameters studied but, considering MADRS and HSCL scores, a difference in favor of CL is observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Improvement of the quality of life in Type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetic patients with severe late complications is one of the main goals of pancreas and/or kidney grafting. To assess the influences of these treatment modalities on the different aspects of the quality of life a cross-sectional study in 157 patients was conducted. They were categorized into patients pretransplant without dialysis (n = 29; Group A), pretransplant under dialysis (n = 44; Group B), posttransplant with pancreas and kidney functioning (n = 31; Group C), post-transplant with functioning kidney, but insulin therapy (n = 29; Group D), post-transplant under dialysis and insulin therapy again (n = 15; Group E) and patients after single pancreas transplantation and rejection, with good renal function, but insulin therapy (n = 9; Group F). All patients answered a mailed, self-administered questionnaire (217 questions) consisting of a broad spectrum of rehabilitation criteria. The results indicate a better quality of life in Groups C and D as compared to the other groups. In general the scores are highest in C, but without any significant difference to D. Impressive significant differences between C or D and the other groups were found especially in their satisfaction with physical capacity, leisure-time activities or the overall quality of life.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purposes of this study were to evaluate the effects of intense running exercise in the presence and absence of interpersonal competition on both (a) pre-exercise anxiety levels and (b) alterations in anxiety as a consequence of the exercise. Seven females and 10 males performed a 5-mile run over the same outdoor course on two separate days. In one condition the subjects ran in a road-race in which intense exercise was combined with interpersonal competition. In the second condition, exercise of the same intensity (84% VO2max) and duration was completed, but interpersonal competition was absent. Cognitive (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory; STAI) and somatic (Body Awareness Scale; BAS) aspects of anxiety were measured 15 min before and after exercise as well as on a separate day under non-stressful, baseline conditions. A main effect for the Trials factor was found using repeated measures ANOVA [Condition (presence/absence of interpersonal competition) X Gender X Trials (baseline/pre-exercise/post-exercise)], and post-hoc analysis revealed that post-exercise state anxiety and body awareness levels were both reduced compared to pre-exercise baseline values. Condition and Gender main effects were not significant nor were any of the interaction effects. Pre-exercise STAI and BAS levels were found to be significantly (p less than .01) elevated above baseline values. However, while post-exercise STAI scores were significantly (p less than .01) below the baseline STAI level, the post-exercise BAS values did not fall below the corresponding baseline level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Research in biobehavioral oncology has been focused on stress as one dispositional factor in the multifactorial origin and in the clinical progression of malignant disease. New insights into the transduction of environmental influences to the immune system and to other body systems by the brain and neurotransmitters have increased the salience of this approach. Behavioral medicine in the area of cardiovascular disease has been successful due to the introduction of a "Type A" or coronary prone behavior pattern in large epidemiologic studies. This pattern is marked by both psychologic and physiologic hyperresponsiveness. Type A persons appear to be hostile, easily angered, competitive and hard-driving. More recently, behavioral oncologists have similarly attempted at conceptualizing a "Type C" or biopsychosocial cancer risk pattern, as they have noted the denial and suppression of emotions, in particular anger. Other features of this pattern are "pathological niceness", avoidance of conflicts, exaggerated social desirability, harmonizing behavior, over-compliance, over-patience, as well as high rationality and a rigid control of emotional expression ("anti-emotionality"). This pattern, usually concealed behind a facade of pleasantness, appears to be effective as long as environmental and psychological homeostasis is maintained, but collapses in the course of time under the impact of accumulated strains and stressors, especially those evoking feelings of depression and reactions of helplessness and hopelessness. As a prominent feature of this particular coping style, excessive denial, avoidance, suppression and repression of emotions and own basic needs appears to weaken the organism's natural resistance to carcinogenic influences. This may mean that the excessive use of denial and suppression/repression has important psychophysiologic effects linked to tumor biology and host-defense. Recent studies reveal that psychosocial stressors which are met by inadequate and repressive coping styles are associated with changes in immunocompetence, including both humoral and cell-mediated immunity. Relationships between different immune parameters (natural killer cell activity, lymphocytes, serotonin uptake, mean platelet volume) and mood states, psychological coping styles and personality variables are outlined. Recent findings indicate also that in certain malignancies (eg. breast cancer) the clinical course of the disease is influenced by psychosocial factors and coping style, as well as that the risk of cancer recurrence and metastasis is influenced by the type and duration of a given stressor. Individuals with a more favorable outcome have higher fighting spirit, a greater potential for aggression and lesser suppressive tendencies. Psychological intervention in cancer patients in its different forms and within the frame of the over-all treatment has now become a matter of scientific discussion and research.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Heart rate (HR), core temperature (CT) and gross locomotor activity (GLA) were recorded in rats by a computerized telemetry system before, during and after 15-min exposure to a constantly electrified (2mA) or nonelectrified (0mA) prod which was presented through a hole in the home cage with woodshavings on the floor [shock-prod burying (SPB) test]. Measurement of both autonomic and behavioral response continued up to 60 min after introduction of the prod in the home cage. Twenty-four h after the SPB test, rats were tested for retention. During the SPB test, significant increases in HR, respective to baseline values, were observed in both the 2mA and 0mA group, but the tachycardiac response in the former group significantly outweighed that in the latter group. In shocked rats, HR remained elevated during the entire 45-min posttest period, whereas HR declined immediately after removal of the prod in nonshocked animals. An onset in rise in CT was observed in the 2mA, but not in the 0mA group, during prod exposure time, which eventually resulted in an additional-more than two-fold--increase after termination of the test and outlasted total recording time. Marked behavioral activation was observed in the 2mA group, whereas the 0mA responded to a lesser extent. Approach and exploration of the prod was reduced when the prod was electrified. The total time spent by rats burying the prod was significantly longer in the shocked than in the nonshocked group. When exposed to the nonelectrified prod after 24 h, total burying time was reduced in the 2mA group but still significantly longer than in the 0mA group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Depression is the most common psychiatric condition encountered in elderly people. The present paper intended to first review past epidemiological studies on depression in late life and secondly to investigate the symptomatological characteristics of depression in the elderly. The author also report significant results of a therapeutic approach to late-life depression, including antidepressant drug treatment and non-convulsive electric shock therapy. Previous epidemiological studies on prevalence rate of late life depression can be divided into two distinct groups according to their different methodologies including subjective and objective evaluations. Approximately 30% subjectively evaluated and 3% objectively evaluated in elderly people older than 65 years of age were depressed with depressed women outnumbering men approximately 2 to 1. Comparisons of the symptomatological characteristics were made in an extremely wide series of 104 depressed in-patients. Depressed patients with hypochodriacal complaints, pseudo-dementia, delusion and suicidal urges increased with aging. Depressed patients with a genetic factor decreased with aging, suggesting that the depressed patients in late life seems to have multiple etiological factors. We intended to correlate the plasma levels of various antidepressant drugs to the age of the depressed patients. There were significant positive correlations between the plasma levels and the age in patients with tricyclic antidepressant (amoxapine, dothiepin) treatment while on the other hand, no significant correlation was found between the two values in the patients with non-tricyclic antidepressant (setiptiline) treatment. These results suggest that non-tricyclic antidepressant drug should be selected for the treatment of depression in the elderly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Two studies explored depressives' sensitivity to social information as an impediment to their gaining a sense of confidence and control. In Study 1, Ss viewed a videotape of an actor performing an achievement task and were asked to list their impressions of the actor. As compared with nondepressed Ss, depressed Ss generated more inferences overall, generated more abstract inferences, and exhibited less overall confidence in their impression of the actor. In Study 2, Ss reported their beliefs of the utility of information about a person's past behaviors and personality for understanding, predicting future behavior, and describing that person. Depressed Ss expressed more interest than did nondepressed Ss in both types of information but were less confident of the utility of the information for prediction.

We performed an open, double-blind, and long-term study of vigabatrin (gamma-vinyl-GABA, GVG) in patients with treatment-resistant epilepsy who were receiving only one or at most two standard antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The novel design included a parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase that minimized the number of patients receiving placebo and allowed determination of the optimum dose of GVG for each patient before initiation of the double-blind phase. The study was divided into four phases. The first phase was a 6-week period of baseline observation. In the second phase, GVG was added openly to previous AEDs for 8 weeks. During the first 2 weeks of this phase, the dose of GVG was increased weekly and then, in the absence of adverse effects, was held constant for the next 6 weeks. At the end of this open phase, seizure frequency during the 6 weeks of constant treatment was compared with the baseline seizure frequency for each patient. Patients who experienced reduction greater than 50% in the frequency of any seizure type during the open phase were defined as responders. These responders were then entered into the third and double-blind phase, in which they were randomly allocated wither to continue active GVG treatment or placebo for 8 weeks. Thirty-three patients entered the study; 31 of 33 patients completed the initial open phase. Twenty patients achieved a reduction greater than or equal to 50% in the frequency of one or more seizure types and were eligible for the double-blind phase; 10 were randomized to continue GVG and 10 were randomized to placebo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Many brain-injured (BI) patients complain of persistent fatigue that may alter their lifestyles. In order to assess muscular strength and endurance after brain injury, 22 BI men, greater than 9 months postinjury and aged 20 to 51 years, were separated into two groups based on a complaint of fatigue (fatigue n = 13, nonfatigue n = 9); each performed one maximal isometric knee extension at 60 degrees and 20 maximal isokinetic contractions at 20 rpm using a Cybex II dynamometer. A third group of age-matched, able-bodied men (n = 10) were used as controls. A battery of tests assessing the presence of fatigue (using a symptom checklist and two rating scales), depression, anxiety, and health status were given at the time of isokinetic/isometric testing. The mean fatigue rating, a subjective score, for the fatigue group of BI subjects was significantly worse than the other groups (p less than .01). There was a positive correlation between clinically significant Zung depression scores and fatigue rating (r = .46) and between Zung anxiety scores and fatigue rating. The depression scores for those who complained of fatigue were significantly higher than the other groups (p less than .005). Maximal isometric contractions were no different among the three groups. The mean maximal isokinetic torque during the 20 repetitions was greater in controls than in the BI groups, but did not reach statistical significance (p less than .25). There were no significant declines in isokinetic torque in the 20 repetitions for any of the groups, and the fatigue index was nearly equal for all three groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We analyzed the stability of ratings on concreteness, imagery, emotionality, and interest values. 204 subjects were 92 adolescents (52 girls and 40 boys), whose mean age was 15.6 yr., and 112 young adults (80 women and 32 men) whose mean age was 19.8 yr. Subjects were given a list of 50 concrete and 50 abstract words to rate on concreteness, imagery, emotionality, and interest. On each scale for each age group Pearson correlations over words were significant.

The literature on alcohol and stress in human subjects carried out since 1981 is reviewed. The review covers selected aspects of the interaction of alcohol and stress. (1) Most of the review focuses on the role of stress on alcohol ingestion. Retrospective research based on data from the Health and Nutrition Examination Survey indicated an increase in alcohol consumption with anxiety in certain groups of, as yet not well characterized, individuals. For example, although still insufficiently documented, stress does not appear to play a significant role in alcohol ingestion by women and the elderly. By contrast, stress does appear to play a role in the control of alcohol ingestion by adolescents. Prospective studies employing questionnaire-interview formats generally support an effect of stress on alcohol ingestion. However, studies employing male college aged social drinkers did not find a correlation between levels of stress and ingestion of alcohol. Alcoholics also differ in the reasons for drinking alcohol, but generally ingest alcohol to lessen anxiety/stress. It is clear that the Tension Reduction Hypothesis as originally postulated is no longer adequate. Many new models based on an interaction of alcohol and stress have been proposed to explain the control of alcohol consumption. Considering the multidimensionality of factors that appear to contribute to the control of alcohol ingestion, it is unlikely that a single model could possibly be relevant to alcohol ingestion under all conditions. More likely different models may be relevant to alcohol consumption under specific conditions, or for specific populations. (2) Alcohol has been reported to decrease anxiety in agoraphobics. The self-medication by agoraphobics may contribute significantly to their alcohol abuse. (3) Alcohol has also been reported to decrease tremor of the hands in stressed subjects as well as in patients with essential tremor. (4) Although a number of studies have employed electrodermal activity in studies aimed at the interaction of alcohol and stress, the results have been rather inconsistent. (5) The controversy on the purported beneficial effect of alcohol on the cardiovascular system persists. A number of studies have shown a J- or U-shaped relationship between alcohol ingestion and incidence of coronary heart disease. Alcohol may also influence stress-induced changes in blood pressure. Although a number of studies have demonstrated lower blood pressure in individuals ingesting less than two drinks per day compared with abstainers or heavy alcohol imbibers, the evidence is not conclusive. (6) It is not clear whether the interaction of alcohol and stress involves alterations in plasma catecholamines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This paper reports two experiments. In Experiment 1, the effects of chlordiazepoxide alone and in combination with a series of putative antagonists at various sites on the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor complex on conditioned suppression of operant behavior in rats were assessed. Response rates during presentation of a stimulus associated with shock (CS responding) and when only positive reinforcement is effective (pre-CS responding) were analysed. Chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg) significantly increased CS responding. This effect was significantly antagonised by Ro15-1788 (10 mg/kg) and by picrotoxin (1.5 mg/kg), but not by bicuculline (1.5 mg/kg) or by delta-amino-n-valeric acid (10 or 20 mg/kg). Chlordiazepoxide also significantly, albeit more slightly, increased pre-CS responding and none of the other drugs tested significantly antagonised this action, though Ro15-1788 plus chlordiazepoxide resulted in pre-CS response rates not significantly different from either chlordiazepoxide alone or control. These interactions are discussed in the context of the proposed GABA/benzodiazepine receptor complex with the conclusion that drug effects at the benzodiazepine- and picrotoxin-sensitive channel sites have an important role in mediating anxiolytic action. However, behavioral evidence of an important role for GABAa or GABAb receptors remains very limited. The second experiment studied the intrinsic actions of bicuculline, picrotoxin, and Ro15-1788 on conditioned suppression. Responding during a conditioned stimulus associated with a mild (0.125 to 0.15 mA) electric shock (CS responding) and a control rate of responding (pre-CS responding) were recorded. Bicuculline (1.5 mg/kg) and Ro15-1788 (10 mg/kg) did not significantly affect either response rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

By presenting the salient aspects of a case study of a high school student athlete, we have attempted to show how participation in sports can negatively impact on self-concept, self-esteem, physical acceptance, and self-efficacy, thereby contributing to an overall feeling of inadequacy, helplessness, hopelessness, and ultimately leading to depression and chronic fatigue. An early maturer, this student experienced early success in several sports without a great deal of effort and investment, and derived much of his sense of being from the recognition and reinforcement accorded him by significant others, most notably from a father who placed a higher premium on success in athletics than on other equally worthwhile pursuits. When continued success was not forthcoming, and as later-maturing peers caught up to and surpassed his athletic accomplishments, the student sought to protect his sense of self-esteem by rationalizing that his lack of success was due to a physical problem. He became obsessed with the thought that he was gradually losing his athletic identity and he lapsed deeper and deeper into a depressed state. His compulsive overtraining and starvation diet failed to produce his image of the "ideal body" that, of course, was unachievable because of his distorted view of reality. Ultimately, this behavior resulted in hospitalization for treatment of an eating disorder and clinical depression. Even a successful senior football season after his psychiatric care could not filter through his distorted perceptions and he could not cope with the thought of participating in another track and field season and having his performance bested by others whom he had once handily beaten. Thus, once again, he engaged in self-protective behavior and sought verification from sportsmedicine professionals. Diagnosis of Tom's condition was possible only through the collaborative efforts of the athletic trainer, physical therapist, sport psychologist, and family physician. Professionals involved in sportsmedicine must be aware of the critical role that highly valued activities like sports play in the psychosocial development of adolescents. To the adult, these activities may seem trivial, frivolous, and removed from the "real world," but to the adolescent, they are an important source of self-esteem during a critical and volatile period of self-concept edification. During a period of awakening sexuality and heightened awareness of their physical being, activities that emphasize the physical aspect of self gain prominence. Those who derive positive experiences benefit from enhanced feelings of physical self-efficacy and self-esteem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The relationship between pain perception and emotional states is well known. However, the nature of this relationship and how different emotional states affect sensory and cognitive dimensions of pain remains uncertain. Results from experimental investigations are often contradictory, which may be due to methodological difficulties in inducing pain and monitoring physiological responses. In addition, most studies have focused on a single emotion, and data on the relative effects of different emotional states are lacking. In the present study we attempted to eliminate some of these methodological problems. Laser evoked potentials were used as a quantitative correlate to pain perception and were measured in 12 highly hypnotically susceptible subjects during seven conditions: (a) a prehypnotic baseline condition; (b) a neutral hypnotic control condition; (c-e) hypnotically recalled anger, fear, and depression in randomized order; (f) a hypnotically recalled happy condition, and (g) a posthypnotic awake control condition. The pain evoked potentials were significantly decreased in the angry condition and significantly increased in the depressed condition compared with baseline. No differences could be detected for either the happy or the fear-related condition compared with the baseline or neutral hypnotic condition. A significant positive correlation between the subjective intensity of depression and the increase in evoked potentials was found, but none for the other three emotions. The results support earlier findings that clinical depression is related to increased pain perception, and findings that the expression of anger can inhibit the experience of pain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This investigation was designed to determine the impact of a brief period of cardiac rehabilitation, initiated within 6 weeks of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), on both disease-specific and generic health-related quality of life, exercise tolerance and return to work after AMI. With a stratified, parallel group design, 201 low-risk patients with evidence of depression or anxiety, or both, after AMI, were randomized to either an 8-week program of exercise conditioning and behavioral counseling or to conventional care. Although the differences were small, significantly greater improvement was seen in rehabilitation group patients at 8 weeks in the emotions dimension of a new disease-specific, health-related Quality of Life Questionnaire, in their state of anxiety and in exercise tolerance. All measures of health-related quality of life in both groups improved significantly over the 12-month follow-up period. However, the 95% confidence intervals around differences between groups at the 12-month follow-up effectively excluded sustained, clinically important benefits of rehabilitation in disease-specific (limitations, -2.70, 1.40; emotions, -4.86, 1.10, where negative values favor conventional care and positive values favor rehabilitation) and generic health-related quality of life (time trade-off, -0.062, 0.052; quality of well-being, -0.042, 0.035) or in exercise tolerance (-38.5, 52.1 kpm/min); also, return to work was similar in the 2 groups (relative risk, 0.93; confidence interval, 0.71, 1.64).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A long-standing hypothesis is that feelings of anger and anxiety increase the risk for essential hypertension. Most studies examining this hypothesis have been cross-sectional in design or undertaken with men only. We tested this hypothesis along with determination of the other behavioral and biological predictors of increases in systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure from baseline to a follow-up examination 3 years later in a prospective study of 468 middle-aged women whose blood pressure at the baseline examination was less than 140/90 mmHg. Analyses showed that increases in the Spielberger Trait Anger Scale between the baseline and 3-year follow-up examination, as well as Framingham Tension scores (a measure of anxiety) at baseline, independently predicted an increase in SBP (P less than 0.01). Other factors that independently predicted an increase in SBP were baseline fasting insulin, parental history of hypertension and increases in body mass index and in alcohol intake across the 3 years of follow-up. Increases in the Spielberger Trait Anger Scores independently predicted increases in DBP (P less than 0.02), as did black race, increases in body mass index and hematocrit and decreases in potassium intake. Although menopausal status and hormone replacement therapy were unrelated to changes in blood pressure, postmenopausal women on hormone replacement therapy did show significant increases in DBP in the univariate analysis. Anxiety at baseline, along with parental history of hypertension, baseline fasting insulin and baseline body mass index, predicted a later onset of hypertension, i.e. on pharmacologic treatment for hypertension, in the univariate analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

As more cardiac transplant procedures are performed, the psychosocial implications of the procedure can be identified and investigated. The process of cardiac transplant can be viewed as a series of stages and adaptive tasks which begin with the proposal of transplant and progress to successful postoperative adaptation. The suggestion of transplant may evoke feelings of anxiety and ambivalence as patients realize that transplant may be their only option for long-term survival. The evaluation process determines the need for transplant and whether there are circumstances that might limit post-transplant survival. Psychosocial evaluation is important as survival depends in part on the recipient's ability to cope with stressors and comply with a complex medical regimen. This evaluation is not standardized, and research continues to identify reliable predictors of postoperative behavioral and psychiatric complications. The wait for a donor may be the most stressful of all stages as candidates deal with increasing symptoms, increasingly intensive medical management and the fear of a donor will not be found in time. Following successful surgery, heart recipients and their families express feelings of joy and relief. During convalescence, adjustment difficulties may arise in the form of transient depression or body image concerns. After recipients are discharged from the hospital, they must comply with intensive medical follow-up to monitor their health. They continue to be vulnerable to physical, emotional and financial problems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Experimental models have been developed to investigate the influences of anger, fear, and sleep on coronary blood flow. Studies of anger in dogs with coronary stenosis indicate that the postarousal phase is particularly conducive to myocardial ischemia. Specifically, a delayed coronary vasoconstrictor response has been observed within 1-3 minutes after cessation of behavioral arousal. The response is prevented by bilateral stellectomy and can be elicited in anesthetized animals by electrical stimulation of the right or left stellate ganglion. The latter effect is averted by alpha-adrenergic blockade with prazosin. Although the basis for the protracted nature of the delayed vasoconstriction remains to be clarified, the current hypothesis is that the phenomenon results from a time-dependent imbalance between the vasoconstrictor effects of adrenergic input and the vasodilator influences of coronary pressure and/or cardiac metabolic activity. A behavioral model emulating the fear state has also been developed. When dogs that fail to exhibit anger are placed in a food-access confrontation protocol, the animals demonstrate a fearlike state evidenced by a cowering posture and somatic tremor. There is a distinct plasma catecholamine profile that is characterized by a predominant increase in epinephrine compared with norepinephrine. This is in contrast to the pattern observed during anger, in which a prevalent increase in norepinephrine is observed. Fear results in significant increases in heart rate, arterial blood pressure, and coronary arterial flow. Sleep is also associated with substantial alterations in coronary hemodynamic function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Although kappa opioid agonists and certain agonist-antagonists are known to be sedating, this effect has not been well characterized in a drug-naive population. We compared the sedative properties of intravenous butorphanol with those of midazolam or the combination in 126 healthy preoperative patients. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive one of nine treatments in a double-blind fashion: 7.1, 22.5, or 71.4 micrograms/kg butorphanol; 4.3, 13.6, or 42.9 micrograms/kg midazolam; or 3.6 + 2.2, 11.3 + 6.8, or 35.7 + 21.5 micrograms/kg butorphanol and midazolam in combination. Eight visual analogue scales (VAS) were completed by the subject and an observer. The subject then performed two psychomotor tests (the Trieger dot test and the Halstead trail-making test) and was shown two playing cards in order to assess memory. The test drug was administered, and 5 min later the evaluations were repeated and two more cards were shown. On the following day the subjects were asked to recall the names of the playing cards. Butorphanol, midazolam, and their combination produced dose-related changes in VAS scores that were significant and qualitatively similar: subjects became sleepy, less nervous, weak, and less clear-thinking. There was no significant euphoria or dysphoria. The sedative and depressant effects on respiratory rate of the high-dose combination were significantly greater than those predicted by simple additivity: 14 of 14 subjects receiving the high dose of the butorphanol/midazolam combination had lid droop and marked sedation, and 2 of 14 subjects had respiratory rates of less than 4 breaths per min. All three drug treatments caused significant, dose-dependent impairment of psychomotor function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In Sample 1, 46 procrastinators compared with 52 nonprocrastinators claimed lower self-esteem, greater public self-consciousness and social anxiety, and a stronger tendency toward self-handicapping. In Sample 2, 48 procrastinators compared with 54 nonprocrastinators reported a weaker tendency toward seeking self-identity information but a stronger tendency toward a diffuse-identity style, yet there were no significant differences in verbal and abstract thinking abilities. Further research must provide evidence for persistent procrastination as a personality disorder that includes anxiety, avoidance, and a fear of evaluation of ability.

Clinically, adult autistic and PDD individuals appear to have an uneasy relationship with their social environment no matter how much developmental progress they make. Many can work at modest jobs, many more do not, and even fewer are interested enough in the human environment to cohabitate and/or marry. A conversation with a young autistic man of 20 about a trip to visit a relative focuses more on the time the train left and how late it was in hypermnestic detail, including all details except the affective environment or the relationships to human beings. This is the human significance of the term autism. Autistics can speak and reference, but they seem not to understand the social requirements of a human interchange. If they do know it, they know it in a fragmentary or rudimentary way devoid of subtlety or nuance. Whatever we mean by social intercourse and whatever functions subsume it, they seem to emerge in interaction with cognition and language. They develop apace as human traverse those first 3 years of life and as they reach social maturity in adolescence. Autistic children appear not to integrate their knowledge of things in a representation that includes emotional and cognitive elements. They do not seem to understand that words necessarily refer to things of this world that others are also referencing in their words and sentences--shared reference is not natural to them. Intersubjectivity as a feature of common code use is not tacit or explicit in their behavior. They similarly do not use social referencing in the way in which normals do, and although they show some attachment to people, they seem to do so without benefit of affective display leading to reciprocity. There is little notion of the external that makes another human being distinguishable from a thing. Their treasured objects in early childhood are hard and lack comforting proximal receptor attractiveness as in normals. Hobson's extensive studies have elaborated a notion about the autistic child's knowledge of person. He comments on the lack of integration of the verbal and visual situational ties in which affective expression emerges and functions. He also comments on the deictic inabilities, inferring that the "I," "you," and "he" references do not have any significance for such children. We would like to note that while Vygotsky and others have observed that speech comes from the world of people, language comes from the maturing organism as an innate propensity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

There have been few studies investigating the effect of treatments that alter serotonergic neurotransmission on the density of serotonin1A (5-hydroxytryptamine1A [5-HT1A]) receptors, even though lesioning serotonergic neurons has been reported to enhance certain responses thought to be due to activation of 5-HT1A receptors and repeated treatment of rats with different types of antidepressants can diminish 5-HT1A-mediated responses. Consequently, the binding of 3H-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (DPAT) to 5-HT1A receptors in serotonergic cell body and terminal field areas of rat brain was measured by quantitative autoradiography following either the lesioning of serotonergic neurons with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), or after chronic administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) (clorgyline, phenelzine, or tranylcypromine) or inhibitors of 5-HT uptake (citalopram or sertraline). Treatment of rats with 5,7-DHT did not cause any significant increase in binding of 3H-DPAT to 5-HT1A receptors in any area of the brain examined. There was no significant reduction in the binding of 3H-DPAT in terminal field areas of serotonergic innervation in rats treated with 5,7-DHT except in the CA2/CA3 region of the hippocampus (33% to 35% reduction). In the dorsal and median raphe nuclei, the specific binding of 3H-DPAT was reduced by treatment of rats with 5,7-DHT. In lesioned rats, the binding of 3H-cyanoimipramine (3H-CN-IMI) to uptake sites for serotonin was essentially eliminated in all terminal field areas examined, as well as in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. Repeated administration of clorgyline, phenelzine, tranylcypromine, citalopram, or sertraline produced an attenuation of the hypothermic response of rats to acute subcutaneous injection of the 5-HT1A-receptor-agonist DPAT. In spite of this change in 5-HT1A responsivity, these treatments caused in the same animals no consistent change in the binding of 3H-DPAT in either serotonergic cell body or terminal field areas. Of the five drugs studied that diminished DPAT-induced hypothermia, only phenelzine and clorgyline significantly reduced the binding of 3H-DPAT, and even then in only a few of the 12 areas of brain measured. As a result of treatment of rats with tranylcypromine there was a significant increase in the binding of 3H-DPAT in the CA2/CA3 region of the hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Patients in a persistent vegetative state (PVS) constituted approximately 3% of the population in four Milwaukee nursing homes. In order to understand family members' attitudes and reactions toward such patients, 33 (92%) of 36 family members of patients in PVS contacted were studied. The age of the patients ranged from 19 to 95 with a mean age of 73.4 +/- 17.2 years, and family members' ages ranged from 41 to 89 with a mean age of 61.8 +/- 3.3 years. The etiology of the PVS varied from dementia to cerebral trauma. The mean duration of the PVS was 54 +/- 8.4 months (range 12 to 204). Family members reported that they visited patients 260 times during the first year following the onset of the PVS and were still visiting at a rate of 209 visits yearly at the time of the interview. There was no significant correlation between the frequency of the family members visits and the duration of the PVS, the patient's or family member's age, or the family member's relationship to the patient. Ninety percent of patients were considered by family members to have some awareness of pain, light or darkness, environment, taste, verbal conversation, or the family member's presence. Most family members thought they understood the patient's medical condition, and the majority did not expect the patient to improve. Nevertheless, the majority of family members wanted the patient to undergo therapeutic interventions, including transfer to the acute hospital and surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

As originally named for the ostensibly contradictory appearance of rapid eye movements and low voltage fast cortical activity during behavioral sleep, paradoxical sleep or rapid eye movement sleep, represents a distinct third state, in addition to waking and slow wave sleep, in mammals and birds. It is an internally generated state of intense tonic and phasic central activation that is contemporaneous with the inhibition of sensory input and motor output. In early studies, it was established that the state of paradoxical sleep was generated within the brainstem, and particularly within the pons. Pharmacological studies indicated an important role for acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter in the generation of this state. Local injections of cholinergic agonists into the pontine tegmentum triggered a state of paradoxical sleep marked by phasic ponto-geniculo-occipital spikes in association with cortical activation and neck muscle atonia. Following the immunohistochemical identification of choline acetyl transferase-containing neurons and their localization to the dorsolateral ponto-mesencephalic tegmentum, neurotoxic lesions of this major cholinergic cell group could be performed to assess its importance in paradoxical sleep. Destruction of the majority of the cholinergic cells, which are concentrated within the laterodorsal tegmental and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei but extend also into the locus coeruleus and parabrachial nuclei in the cat, resulted in a loss or diminishment of the state of paradoxical sleep, ponto-geniculo-occipital spiking and neck muscle atonia. These deficits were correlated with the loss of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the region, so as to corroborate results of pharmacological studies and single unit recording studies indicating an active role of these cholinergic cells in the generation of paradoxical sleep and its components. These cells provide a cholinergic innervation to the entire brainstem reticular formation that may be critical in the generation of the state which involves recruitment of massive populations of reticular neurons. Major ascending projections into the thalamus, including the lateral geniculate, may provide the means by which phasic (including ponto-geniculo-occipital spikes) and tonic activation is communicated in part to the cerebral cortex. Descending projections through the caudal dorsolateral pontine tegmentum and into the medial medullary reticular formation may be involved in the initiation of sensorimotor inhibition. Although it appears that the pontomesencephalic cholinergic neurons play an important, active role in the generation of paradoxical sleep, this role may be conditional upon the simultaneous inactivity of noradrenaline and serotonin neurons, evidence for which derives from both pharmacological and recording studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This paper limits itself to abstract art the better to concentrate on the relation between the emotionally expressive power of esthetic form--apart from its narrative content--and emotional responsiveness. The emotionally expressive power of art--not to be confused with the artist's own emotions--has to do with the way sensuous esthetic forms highlight the rhythmic changes of tension and release inherent in ordinary perceptual experience. Tension and release are useful terms in thinking about how the perception of an esthetic structure is transformed (transduced) into feelingful psychological meanings, and contributes to the subjective sense of wholeness. The sense of wholeness may be illusory and/or authentic depending on the mix of elements in the individual's responsiveness. It comes about through a unified organization of tension and release, as embodied in expressive forms such as rhythm and rhyme, resonating with tension and release evoked in the observer's associations to such psychological issues as separation and reunion. Having stirred the viewer's emotional responsiveness, the art work provides a reliable "container" for the objectification of latent emotions.

Interviews with relatives and others who knew a group of people dying of cancer in England are reported. The bulk of the paper compares 45 such patients who received hospice care with 126 who received conventional care. The sampling procedure showed that 2.9% of people aged 15 or over at death died in a hospice, and 6.9% received some form of hospice service. The hospice patients differed in several ways from other cancer patients. They had fewer conditions other than cancer recorded on the death certificate, were believed to be more religious and were more likely to suffer from a variety of symptoms and restrictions, including pain. Hospice patients were reported more likely to know that they were dying and respondents' levels of satisfaction with hospice home nursing and in-patient hospice care were significantly higher than for other forms of care. Hospice home nurses were found to have adopted a more advisory approach to nursing care than other home nurses who focussed more on practical care. When final admissions were considered, in-patient hospice care involved fewer medical interventions and, in the last year of life, those receiving hospice services were less likely to have an operation. There were few differences between the two groups in what happened at the time of death, although for in-patient deaths, respondents judged the staff of hospices to be more understanding. The relatives of hospice patients were more likely to be visited by a nurse at home after the death. Few differences in bereavement reaction were found, but those that were suggested that respondents for the hospice group were adjusting better.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study aimed to clarify how manifestations and acquisition relate to diagnostic categories of dental fear in a population of self-referred dental fear patients, since diagnostic criteria specifically related to dental fear have not been validated. DSM III-R diagnostic criteria for phobias were used to compare with four existing dental fear diagnostic categories, referred to as the Seattle system. Subjects were 208 persons with dental fear who were telephone interviewed, of whom a subsample of 155 responded to a mailed Dental Anxiety Scale (DAS), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and a modified FSS-II Geer Fear Scale (GFS). Personal interviews and a Dental Beliefs Scale of perceived trust and social interaction with dentists were also used to evaluate a subsample of 80 patients selected by sex and high dental fear. Results showed that the majority of the 80 patients (66%), suffered from social embarrassment about their dental fear problem and their inability to do something about it. The largest cause of their fear (84%) was reported to be traumatic dental experiences, especially in childhood (70%). A minority of patients (16%) could not isolate traumatic experiences and had a history of general fearfulness or anxiety. Analysis of GFS data for the 155 subjects showed that fear of snakes and injuries were highest among women; heights and injections among men. Fear of blood was rarely reported. Spearman correlations between GFS individual items and DAS scores indicated functional independence between dental fear and common fears such as blood, injections and enclosures in most cases. Only in specific types of dental fear did these results support Rachman and Lopatka's contention that fears are thought to summate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

For the treatment of phobia and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), we developed a method of exposure (in vivo or in imagination) and response prevention by transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TES), in which weak electrical stimuli (3-4V, about 5Hz) are applied to the palm ("Rokyu" in acupuncture treatment) or vertex ("Hyakue") of a patient tolerating dysphoria induced in a state of imagination or in real life. TES was very effective in about 80% of 32 patients treated (Seishin Igaku, 1989). Through the treatment of severe cases with TES, several new findings regarding the psychopathology and etiologic mechanism of phobia or OCD were recently obtained. 1) In relatively simple cases treated with TES, anxiety and fear were extinguished within a few minutes by simultaneous close-up normal thoughts. Antagonism may thus possibly be present between a self integration mechanism and pathological mental structure, and TES may discontinuously dysfunctions this antagonism in the manner of a changeover switch. In severe cases, anxiety and fear were not immediately abolished by TES, but strong resistance and fear appeared with increase in TES. Thus, multilevel pathological mental structure are possibly present in severe cases. Moreover, one obsessive-compulsive patient suddenly restored totally free senses after 10 months of TES treatment and stated that he had been found for 10 years by a rule demanding obsessive checking. A certain more decisive principle may then have been present in his pathological mental structure. Based on the above, the pathological mental structure in these phobia and OCD may be concluded to have been dissociated from the self integration mechanism, intensified as the mechanism dealing specifically with anxiety, and finally became resistant to self integration due to the simultaneous close-up of a decisive principle. As for the mechanism of TES action, the following change provides some indication: that is, when TES was applied to the patient under exposure in a state of imagination, strong anxiety was initially induced, and then disappeared after several minutes. This may indicate that TES activates not only a pathological mental structure but also normal mental structure. Thus, while TES may be elevating the energy of anxiety, filling the pathological mental structure, by exposure and response prevention, it is efficiently inducing this anxiety towards the self integration mechanism. 2) On the basis of the above concept, an attempt was made to explain the etiologic mechanism of phobia or OCD. In many cases, the disease is evoked by a trivial provoking trigger after persistent conflict and psychic fatigue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Although it has been stressed that patients with dementia should be cared for at home, family care seems to break down sooner or later. On the other hand, the number of demented patients is now increasing at a far greater rate than can be handled by institutions for the elderly. For these reasons, the appropriate use of social resources is now being emphasized. As early as 1960, Macmillan pointed out that the emotional relationship between an elderly patient and the relative responsible for him determines whether family care will breakdown, and stressed the importance of troublesome behavior in this relationship. Since then, researchers have studied the problem of troublesome behavior in demented patients and the burden that this creates for relatives nursing them. Such studies have stressed that the support of caring relatives is indispensable for the community care of demented patients. In the present study an attempt was made to analyze in detail the breakdown of family care for demented patients. To facilitate systematic study, we complied a pair of check lists containing criteria of troublesome behavior and care burden, adapted from the Disability and Handicap criteria of the WHO. For the purpose of the study, we regarded troublesome behavior as Disability, and care burden as Handicap. The subjects were 40 demented patients and their respective main carers, who had requested institutional care. Before the breakdown, the author had been in charge of all of the patients. The mean period of patient observation was 12 months. At the point when the decision of institutionalization was made by family members, visits were made to each patient-carer pair, and the check lists were used to assess troublesome behavior and care burden. In order to clarify the features of the subject group, the author also visited and examined another 30 patient-carer pairs, who still lived in their home communities, between June and September, 1990. The mean period of observation for these patients was 18 months. There were no significant differences in sex, diagnosis, duration of illness, cognitive function, or number of physical complications between the two groups. No significant difference was found in the total score for the behavior check list between the two groups. In contrast, however, there was a significantly higher score for the burden check list representing those caring for the patients in the study group. Furthermore, it was revealed that social activity, individual free time and familial interaction, as well as many emotional and physical aspects, were more severely affected in the subject carers. This result appeared to confirm that the care burden itself, rather than troublesome behavior is responsible for breakdown. In all of the 70 pairs analyzed, a significant correlation was found between the total score for the behavior check list and that for the burden check list. The result of this study highlighted several new emerging problems. One serious problem is that of patients driving by themselves. In addition, many of carers reported recurrent falls by the patients. As to the problems faced by carers themselves, an appreciable number had been forced to give up their jobs to devote themselves to patient care. In general, female carers with husbands younger than 65 years reported economic distress. Additionally, unlike the situation in most western reports, as many as 43% of the main carers in this study were daughters in law. These problems faced by carers seem to be common in Japan, and are perhaps characteristic of Japanese society.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The effects of emotionality and length on lateralized lexical decision of abstract nouns were investigated in 41 normal and three commissurotomized subjects. Emotionality had the same effect in both visual fields: Emotional words were responded to more accurately than neutral words. Length had different effects in the two visual fields: The accuracy of lexical decisions in the left visual field was selectively higher for four-letter words and in the right visual field it was selectively lower for six-letter words. The latency of lexical decisions revealed equivalent length effects in both visual fields. Of the commissurotomy patients, only L.B.'s left hemisphere performed above chance and revealed a length effect. Length effects are interpreted to reflect a change from a parallel graphic analysis to a sequential parsing strategy when resources are limited. Such a change can occur for words or nonwords in either visual hemifield.

The apocalyptic threat of AIDS, combined with recent ethnological developments, is promoting an anthropological "rediscovery of sex." If this rediscovery is to have important and lasting effects on the development of theory, a stock-taking is in order--one which examines anthropology's historical, methodological, and practical relationship to the study of sexual behavior. Parallel theoretical directions taken in both American and British anthropology, starting in the late 1920's, resulted in a disciplinary departure from the study of sexuality, as such; sexual behavior became shielded from analytic view by a more abstract, propositional approach to society and culture. In addition to reviewing these historical trends, the paper considers elements of personal privacy and intrasocietal variation in the anthropology of sex and, with illustrations taken from the Ilahita Arapesh of northeastern Papua New Guinea, proposes that the locus of sexual behavior and experience lies in the interaction of cultural ideas and psychobiological impulses.

In the present study, the effects of a new anxiolytic, DN-2327, were compared to those of diazepam and buspirone in rats in the elevated plus-maze test. Two indices of anxiety were obtained in this test: the number of entries into the open arms expressed as a percentage of the total number of arm entries and the percentage of time spent on the open arms. Both a typical anxiolytic, diazepam, at 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg, PO and a new anxiolytic, DN-2327, at 2.5 and 5 mg/kg, PO dose-dependently increased the two indices: the percentage of time spent on the open arms and the percentage of open-arm entries. On the other hand, pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) at 10 and 20 mg/kg, IP decreased the two indices dose dependently as did yohimbine at 1.5 and 3 mg/kg, IP. DN-2327 at 2.5 and 5 mg/kg, PO and diazepam at 5 and 10 mg/kg, PO dose dependently and significantly increased the two indices that were suppressed following administration of PTZ at 10 mg/kg, IP. The effects of both DN-2327, 5 mg/kg, PO, and diazepam, 10 mg/kg, PO, on the two indices were significantly antagonized by the benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor antagonist flumazenil, 20 mg/kg, IP. Buspirone (2.5-20 mg/kg, PO) did not affect either of the two responses but dose dependently decreased the number of rearings, although in the Vogel conflict test, the anti-conflict activity of buspirone was equipotent to that of diazepam and DN-2327 at the minimum effective dose (10 mg/kg, PO) of each drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of dexmedetomidine (DXM), a novel alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, on human performance and mood were studied in a double-blind randomized crossover study in 12 healthy student volunteers. Single IM doses of dexmedetomidine, 0.6 microgram/kg (DXM1) and 1.2 micrograms/kg (DXM2), 80 micrograms/kg midazolam (MID) and saline placebo, were given at one-week intervals. Performance was measured objectively and mood was assessed subjectively with visual analogue scales (VAS) at baseline and 40 min, 2 h, 4 h and 6 h after each injection. Blood pressure and heart rate in the sitting position were measured and venous blood was sampled during each testing round. DXM1 did not significantly impair cognitive (digit symbol substitution), coordinative (tracking) or reactive skills, and at 6 h it shortened reaction time and reduced errors in complex tracking. It produced exophoria, increased body sway with the eyes open and impaired subjective performance on VAS. The higher dose dexmedetomidine also caused impaired cognitive, coordinative and reactive skills (although a trend towards improved coordination was found at 6 h), reduced attention, produced exophoria, increased body sway with the eyes open and caused drowsiness, clumsiness, passiveness and mental slowness on the appropriate VAS scales. MID resembled DXM2 in impaired objective and subjective measures of skilled performance, although the objective effects of MID were of speedier onset and shorter duration. In contrast to MID, DXM caused a significant and dose-dependent decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure still detectable 6 h after injection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of various 5-HT3 receptor antagonists were examined in the social interaction (SI) test following discrete microinjection into either the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) or amygdala of the rat. Following DRN injection, ondansetron, ICS205-930, and MDL72222 (5-500 ng) all failed to modify SI under high light/unfamiliar (HLU) test conditions relative to vehicle pretreated controls. The 5-HT3 receptor agonist, 2-Me 5-HT (100-2500 ng), was similarly ineffective under both HLU and low light/familiar (LLF) conditions, although 5-HT (20-100 ng) increased SI under the HLU paradigm. After amygdaloid injection, ondansetron (10-100 ng), granisetron (1-10 ng), ICS205-930 (10-100 ng), GR 65630 (1-10 ng), and MDL72222 (100-1000 ng) all significantly increased SI under the HLU but not LLF condition. Furthermore, a detailed behavioural analysis revealed that the behaviours underlying this increase were similar to those seen in vehicle pretreated animals tested in the LLF compared to HLU condition. The benzodiazepine, flurazepam (200 ng), increased both SI (HLU condition) and punished responding in a modified water-lick conflict model, after amygdaloid injection. Both ondansetron (10-1000 ng) and ICS205-930 (1-100 ng) were ineffective in the conflict test. Finally, 2-Me 5-HT and 5-HT (100-10,000 ng) reduced SI under the LLF test condition with no concomitant change in locomotor activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Support has always been considered an important nursing concept. However, there is no agreement among nurse researchers as to a conceptual definition of supportive nursing or meaningful supportive behaviors. Clarification of the concept, support in nursing, is necessary to promote communication among nurses on nursing behaviors that are effective in providing support and on understanding the relevant properties and characteristics of the concept, supportive nursing care. The objectives of the study were: 1. to analyze the concept, support in nursing, in order to provide a definition of supportive nursing care, and 2. to operationalize the definition of supportive nursing care and use it as an experimental nursing intervention for patients with low back pain. The first part of the study used the concept analysis approach developed by Walker and Avant (1983) to define the concept of supportive nursing care. The properties of supportive nursing care, defined by this analysis, included perception of supportive need, reciprocal interaction (Transaction), listening, providing empathy and information related to health, and confirmation of the patient's verbal and non-verbal response. The second part, the experimental part of the study, was done using King's(1970) Interpersonal Theory for Nursing. The concept, supportive nursing care, as defined in the concept analysis was operationalized and used as the experimental intervention. The experiment tested the effectiveness of the independent variable, supportive nursing care on the dependent variables, depression, mood and patient satisfaction, in the patients with low back pain in army hospitals. The instruments used to measure the dependent variables were Zung's(1965) Self-Rating Depression Scale, Ryman and Colleagues' (1974) Mood Questionnaire and LaMonica and Colleagues' (1986) Patient Satisfaction Scale. The experimental design used for this study was a Solomon 4 group experimental design. This design has the strength of allowing for observation of the main effects of supportive nursing care and pretesting, and for observation of the interaction effects of pretesting and supportive nursing care. The design includes one experimental group and three control groups. The Subjects of this study were 150 young male patients with low back pain on Neuro-Surgical Wards in three general army hospitals. There were 35 in the experimental group, 39 in the pre-posttest control group, 36 in the treatment-posttest control group and 40 in the posttest only control group. Supportive nursing care, as operationalized by the researcher according to the concept analysis, was given to the patients in the experimental group and the treatment-posttest control group, individually for 30 minute sessions, every other day for 5 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The associative network theory of memory [2] is outlined along with the concepts of mood congruity and state dependent learning. Two experiments are reported which investigate the occurrence of these effects where memory for pain is concerned. In experiment 1 the performance of 25 chronic pain patients was compared with that of 25 non-patient controls on a test involving both immediate and delayed recall of a mixed list of stimulus words of 3 types: pain-related, negative or neutral. No significant group differences were found in overall rates of immediate recall. As predicted, however, pain patients recalled more pain-related words than non-patient controls (P less than 0.001). On delayed recall the same significant group x word-type interaction was obtained (P less than 0.02), but in addition the non-patient controls recalled significantly more words overall (P less than 0.02). These results provide some evidence for the occurrence of a mood congruity effect. Experiment 2 investigated state dependent learning and mood congruity effects in experimentally induced pain. Twenty volunteer subjects were allocated to 1 of 4 conditions in which a wordlist (as in experiment 1) was presented following either a painful stimulus (cold pressor test) or a non-painful one (warm water) and was then recalled immediately following further exposure to stimulus conditions which were congruent with the original stimulus (warm/warm and cold/cold conditions) or non-congruent (warm/cold and cold/warm conditions). A 3-way split plot ANOVA yielded no significant main effects for group or word-type, but a significant interaction emerged between state at encoding and at recall (P less than 0.04).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Selection of information is considered as a process which is necessary for realization in connection with limitation of consciousness memory, discrete and slow regime of its activity. Literary data and results are given of own observations concerning neurophysiological structure of realized and unrealized processes. The advantages are stressed of realized information over unrealized one, connected with the possibility of its participation in voluntary regulation of organism functions and organization of abstract-verbal mode of communication.

Self-efficacy expectations were measured in 149 recovering cardiac surgery patients to determine whether in-patient education and telephone monitoring during convalescence enhanced perceptions of cardiac efficacy and reported activity. Significant differences were found for experimental patients in self-efficacy expectations for walking between 4 and 8 weeks (P = 0.02) and between 8 and 24 weeks (P = 0.05) following surgery. Experimental patients also reported higher levels of general activity at 4 weeks (P = 0.05) and 8 weeks (P = 0.02) as well as more walking and lifting at 8 weeks (P = 0.01 and P = 0.0008, respectively). By 12 weeks, treatment differences were no longer significant except for continued higher general activity levels (P = 0.03) for experimental patients. Self-efficacy expectations, summed for all physical activities, at at 8 weeks were found to be a significant predictor of self-reported activity at 12 weeks, contributing 14.8% of the 34.8% explained variance (R2 change = 0.1479; F = 26.58; P less than 0.0001). Self-efficacy expectations summed for all physical activity at 8 weeks were also significant predictors of self-reported activities at 24 weeks, contributing 8.5% of the variance (R2 change = 0.0847; F = 14.48; P = 0.0002). A New York Heart Association functional class at 4 and 8 weeks was an independent predictor of self-reported activity at 12 weeks, as was 8 week functional class for self-reported activity at 24 weeks. Mood state did not contribute to explained variance in the regression models.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Recent studies in the psychiatric literature indicate that baclofen has an anxiolytic action in certain psychopathologic conditions. Clinical observation has shown that manifestations of spasticity are increased in anxious individuals, implicating a supraspinal site of mediation for these responses. The purposes of this study were to determine if baclofen reduced anxiety in individuals with traumatic spinal cord lesions and whether that reduction was correlated with decreased spasticity from the baclofen. Five adult males with traumatic spinal cord injury were randomly assigned to the study protocol. A double-blind, repeated measures, multiple base-line, single-case research design was employed. The independent variable was dose of medication with the three levels being placebo, 40 mg/day of baclofen and 80 mg/day of baclofen, in four evenly divided doses. The dependent variable was the score obtained on the Beck Inventory-A anxiety scale (BIA). The subjects were administered the BIA twice per week for a nine-week period of time, during which they received the doses of medication as described. Quantitative measurements of spasticity were also taken at each session. Visual inspection analysis of the data showed that two subjects had no measurable anxiety of the BIA throughout the study. Three subjects had measurable anxiety on the BIA during the base-line/placebo phase. They showed a decreased level of their BIA scores with 40 mg/day of baclofen, and a further level reduction with 80 mg/day of baclofen. The reduction in BIA scores was statistically significant using the standard deviation band test in one of these subjects. These data indicate that BIA probably has an anxiolytic effect for individuals status post-traumatic spinal cord injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of this study is to examine the effect of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) on quality of life. Secondary purposes are to determine if there is an improvement in state anxiety and physical functioning after PTCA. Data on quality of life in these patients will provide physicians, nurses and other health professionals with a basis to help the angioplasty patient adjust after the procedure. This information will add to the present body of knowledge, serve as a basis for patient education and guide further research. In addition, data on the subjective perception of quality of life may provide an additional index of success or failure of therapy. Subjects scheduled for elective PTCA were mailed a study packet containing three questionnaires. Prior to their admission to the hospital for a scheduled PTCA, subjects completed the Quality of Life Index (QLI), Spielberger's State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and the Physical Functioning Questionnaire. Demographic data were collected from subjects' medical records. Six weeks after a successful PTCA, a second study packet was mailed to subjects. Twenty subjects participated in the study. The majority were employed, Caucasian males with multivessel coronary artery disease and had complained of symptoms less than three months. Paired t-tests demonstrated improvement in the (1) health and functioning subscale (p = less than 0.034), (2) decrease in state anxiety (p = less than 0.030), and (3) increase (p = less than 0.000) in perceived physical functioning. In addition, an inverse relationship was demonstrated between state anxiety and quality of life (r = -0.70, p = 0.000).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Since children's intellectual perception is limited, the preoperative visit by an anesthesiologist alone can rarely help to free the small patients from fear and restlessness prior to elective surgery. In order to relieve anxiety which should be the primary goal of premedication in any patient - children need anxiolytic premedication agents. Drugs for premedication administered by intramuscular or rectal route in children often cause pain, fear and discomfort. The present study was performed in order to investigate oral given midazolam in the premedication of children with special regard to the practical suitability of this method. 100 children, 0.5 to 10 years of age (group A: 0.5-4 years, group B: 5-10 years) undergoing elective urological surgery received 0.4 mg/kg midazolam orally about 20 minutes prior to the arrival in the operation unit. After insertion of a venous cannula into a forearm vein anesthesia was induced with thiopental and maintained by inhalation with Isoflurane, nitrous oxide and oxygen (fi O2:0.3). Degree of sedation, state of mind and behaviour (for 100 children) as well as blood pressure and heart rate (separately for group A and B) were registered preoperatively at defined, comparable and representative circumstances. Side effects prior and during induction phase of anesthesia were documented. The personal data are representative for a normal population of children with typical urological diseases. Oral administered midazolam had only a mild or non sedative effect in 76-84% of the children 70-84% of the small patients showed an indifferent or euphoric state of mind and 67-88% behaved cooperatively or passively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This study was attempted to provide us with basic information on how to improve understanding with patients for operation, and to offer them better nursing and treatment. This kind of study will help scientific application to nursing practice and operating room. The data was collected by interviewing 29 patients who underwent the elective surgery under the general anesthesia at Y hospital in Seoul. The interview ran from October 15 to December 15, 1989. The research instrument was a anxiety measurement device (SAAI) originally developed by Spielberger, et al and modified by Jung-Tack Kim. 1. Hypothesis Testing Hypothesis one was that there would be a difference in state anxiety level according to a time difference in waiting for operation. This hypothesis was rejected (state anxiety level one hour before operation P greater than .05, r = .747, State anxiety level half an hour before operation P greater than .05, r = .1550, state anxiety level just before operation, P greater than .05, r = .1099). However, state anxiety level appeared to be associated with a longer waiting period, like one day before operation (P less than .05, r = .4628). Hypothesis two was that there would be a difference according to state anxiety level of patients for operation. This was rejected. (Change of blood pressure in systolic P greater than .05, r = -.1082. Change of blood pressure in diastolic P greater than .05, r = -.088, Change of pulse rate, P less than .05, r = 1.909) 2. Examining trait anxiety and state anxiety levels, the average level of trait anxiety was 42.034, and the average level of state anxiety one day before operation was 43,000. The average level of state anxiety was averaged 42.356 in a waiting room for operation. 3. Examining the state anxiety level by time period, the level one hour before was 42.379, the level half an hour before 42.276, and the level just before operation 42.414. The low level of state anxiety was due to the fact that premedication was not eliminated. 4. Age and time period like one day before operation was related to state anxiety level (F = 5.271, P less than .001) and blood pressure in waiting room for operation. That is, state anxiety level and blood pressure of patients one day before operation appeared high. Sex was related to changes of blood pressure; the blood pressure of male patients appeared higher than that of female patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Well trained subjects (N = 12) were studied before and after losing approximately 6% of body weight to determine whether physical performance could be maintained while consuming a hypocaloric, high percentage carbohydrate diet. During a 4-d period of weight loss, subjects were randomly assigned to a high carbohydrate (HC) or low carbohydrate (LC) diet. A crossover design was used; subjects were measured before (PRE) and after (POST) weight loss on both diets for a 6-min bout of high intensity arm cranking, weight, skinfold thickness, and profile of mood states (POMS). Hemoglobin, hematocrit, and glycerol concentrations were analyzed for resting blood samples, while lactate, pH, and base excess were analyzed for blood samples drawn at rest and 1, 3, and 5 min after arm cranking. A three-way ANOVA of sprint work revealed a weight loss effect, a diet by weight loss interaction, and an order by diet by weight loss interaction (P less than 0.05). Total sprint work (mean +/- SE) PRE and POST HC was 37.7 +/- 2.1 kJ and 37.4 +/- 2.2 kJ, respectively. Sprint work was higher for PRE LC vs POST LC, with mean values of 37.4 +/- 2.1 kJ and 34.4 +/- 2.2 kJ, respectively. Post-arm cranking lactate was significantly higher PRE compared to POST for both HC and LC. Post-exercise blood pH was lower (P less than 0.05) at PRE vs POST, with no diet effect. Regardless of the diet, POMS variables tension, depression, anger, fatigue, and confusion were significantly elevated from PRE to POST; vigor was significantly lower.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The frequency and severity of 17 side effects presumably associated with stimulant medication were assessed during a rigorous, triple-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover evaluation of methylphenidate, 0.3 and 0.5 mg/kg twice a day, in 83 children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Side effects were rated by parents and teachers at the end of each weekly drug condition. Three children (3.6%) had side effects that were sufficiently serious to warrant immediate discontinuation of medication. Parent ratings indicated that only the side effects of decreased appetite, insomnia, stomachaches, and headaches increased significantly in frequency and severity during the two active medication doses as compared with the placebo condition. Fewer than half of the children experienced these side effects and among those who did, ratings of mean severity remained in the mild range. Teacher ratings showed little change over drug conditions, except on ratings of staring, sadness, and anxiety, which declined with increasing dose of medication. Parent ratings indicated that only the side effects of decreased appetite, insomnia, stomachaches, and headaches increased significantly in frequency and severity during the two active medication doses as compared with the placebo condition. Fewer than half of the children experienced these side effects and among those who did, ratings of mean severity remained in the mild range. Teacher ratings showed little change over drug conditions, except on ratings of staring, sadness, and anxiety, which declined with increasing dose of medication. Surprisingly, a high frequency of these behavior side effects were reported during the placebo condition. Stimulant medication within this therapeutic range, therefore, results in few, generally mild side effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In the first half of the sixties, general notions were formulated concerning the functional role of the orienting reaction (OR) in adaptive activity, its elicitation and habituation. These notions included the following: a) The OR is elicited only by significant changes in a situation. This implies that OR elicitation is preceded by brain processes (usually unconscious) pertaining to the evaluation of the significance of changes according to an existing hierarchy of motivations, attitudes, and goals. Therefore, the OR is of an active (vs. reactive) nature, i.e., is inevitably determined by internal factors of brain activity. b) The OR is not a unitary reaction, but a complex polyfunctional activity, different aspects of which are reflected in different OR components which can be modified rather independently. c) The OR represents the processes of organizing new (non-standard) actions: sensory, motor, or intellectual. OR habituation is a manifestation of attenuation of the active control of an action, and an increase in its automation. Thus, the emphasis in understanding the OR has shifted from a predominantly "sensualistic" platform to a predominantly "actualistic" one. In recent experiments, the role of emotional processes in the elicitation and habituation of components of the OR has been analyzed. Complex relations between the GSR and anxiety were found in a study of patients with acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome treated with different psychopharmacological agents. The study of auditory evoked potential habituation in depressive patients has shown the emotional state influence on sensory aspects of the OR with the participation of the OR brain mechanisms in perceptual defense.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Based on the theory of psychosomatic inhibition, we hypothesized that subjects who abstained from disclosing emotional material on a laboratory task would have poorer control of latent Epstein-Barr virus (as evidenced by high titers for the viral capsid antigen), and similarly, those subjects with psychometrically derived repressive interpersonal styles would show the highest Epstein-Barr viral capsid antigen titers (EBV-VCA). Eighty first-year undergraduates completed a personality inventory and were asked to write an essay/letter for 30 minutes about a stressful event that had happened in their life. Blood was collected from each subject immediately after writing. Essays were scored for degree of emotional disclosure according to the ratio of emotional-to-total words used. Degree of disclosure was found to be associated with impaired control of latent EBV (high antibody titers to the EBV-VCA) controlling for medication use, recent sleep loss, physical activity, lean body mass, caloric intake, and alcohol and recreational drug use. Further, individual differences in interpersonal style (characterized by emotional suppression) related to this immunologic marker in a similar fashion, and these two factors interacted in determining EBV-VCA titers. That is, Repressors who were either high or low disclosers had high levels of antibody titer to EBV-VCA, whereas only those Sensitizers who did not disclose had high antibody titers to EBV-VCA. In addition to supporting the hypothesis that emotional repression is associated with some aspects of host-virus interaction, the present findings highlight the importance of obtaining behavioral and psychometric assessments in psychoimmunologic investigations of this abstract affective construct (i.e., repression).

Numerous reports have described a definite sense of well-being after anesthesia with propofol (Disoprivan). The present study was designed to assess postoperative mood as recorded with a quantitative self-rating method. Postoperative recovery and amnesia were also investigated. Thirty unpremedicated female patients aged 20-60 (ASA grade 1 or 2) who were scheduled for minor gynecological operations were enrolled in the study after informed consent. The patients were randomly allocated to three study groups: group A, induction with propofol 2 mg/kg and maintenance with propofol 0.15 mg/kg per min together with N2O/O2; group B, induction with propofol 2 mg/kg and maintenance with enfluran and N2O/O2; group C, induction with thiopental until loss of the eye lash reflex and maintenance with enfluran and N2O/O2. Postoperative amnesia was assessed by showing five picture cards at 5-min intervals, starting when the patients were able to state the correct date of birth. A test of recovery (p-deletion) was carried out after 30 and again after 60 min. The postoperative mood state was evaluated with the adjective checklist of Janke and Debus 5 h after waking. In good agreement with published reports, propofol patients recovered more rapidly than thiopental patients. A significant but irrelevant amnesia occurred after 5 min in group B. However, in some cases amnesia lasting up to 20 min was observed. The global mood status showed a significantly higher score for positive items and a lower score for negative items after propofol administered by either technique than after thiopental (P = 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In order to gather further insight into the basis for high serum T4 and/or T3 of psychiatric illnesses, we studied thyroid function in 84 consecutive newly hospitalized psychiatric patients (HPP) in a 12-week period. Serum T4 and T3 were measured by immunoassay and thyrotropin (thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH]) by an ultrasensitive immunoradiometric assay. Serum T4 was in the normal range in 64 (76%) and elevated in 20 (24%); free T4 index was elevated in 13 of 75 (16%), total T3 in 12 of 60 (20%), free T3 index in seven of 56 (13%), and TSH in 14 of 84 (17%) cases so studied. Serum TSH was subnormal in only one case (1%). Among the 14 patients with elevated serum TSH, serum free T4 index was normal in 12 and elevated in two. High serum T4 (or free T4 index) and high serum TSH were not correlated significantly by chi 2 analysis. None of the patients with elevated TSH demonstrated goiter or antithyroglobulin or antimicrosomal antibodies. On repeat testing 7 to 21 days after admission, serum TSH (and/or T4) normalized in the three of five patients studied. Serum TSH response to 500 micrograms intravenous (IV) thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) was normal (serum TSH post-TRH, 8 to 28 microU/mL) in two patients with elevated TSH and T4, one patient with normal TSH and high T4, and one patient with normal TSH and T4. One patient with suppressed serum TSH (0.1 microU/mL) had elevated serum T4 (16.9 micrograms/dL, normal 4.8 to 11.5).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Because more than 60% of adolescent visits to physicians last less than 10 minutes, simple screening devices to identify persons at risk for social morbidity are needed. The result of a pilot screening instrument for depression and parent-teenager conflict is described. A seven-item questionnaire (three items for depression and four items for parent-teenager conflict), the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and the Conflict Behavior Questionnaire (CBQ), were administered to 226 adolescents at a high-risk adolescent heath center. After the visit, the provider rated each patient on a five-point Likert scale for level of depression and parent-teenager conflict. The screening questionnaire and the provider ratings were compared with the BDI and CBQ for sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value. A majority of the subjects (61% for depression and 63% for parent-teenager conflict) had no positive screening responses and, of these, less than 3% were classified as being depressed or having parent-teenager conflict by the BDI or CBQ. There were three or four positive screening responses (three responses for the depression questions and 20 responses for the parent-teenager conflict questions) among 23 adolescents and all of these scored in the abnormal range on the BDI or CBQ. Approximately one third of the subjects had intermediate responses. With one positive response, the predictive value for depression and parent-teenager conflict was 17% and 24%, respectively, whereas with two positive responses the predictive values were 56% and 26%. It was shown by receiver operating characteristic curves that the combined sensitivity and specificity of the screening questionnaire was superior to that of the physician ratings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A randomized double-blind study lasting 2 months was performed with either 25 mg captopril twice a day or 50 mg atenolol once a day in 125 patients with established diastolic hypertension (diastolic blood pressure greater than 95 mmHg) identified during a population screening programme of subjects aged less than 65 years. Quality of life was assessed from self-completed questionnaires. A significant fall in diastolic blood pressure occurred with both captopril (106.7 +/- 7.0 to 98.6 +/- 8.6 mmHg) and atenolol (107.4 +/- 7.5 to 98.2 +/- 8.1 mmHg) but there was no difference between the two drugs in the size of the fall. A measure of the number of symptomatic complaints, the symptom complaint rate, decreased with both drugs, by 1.3% for captopril and 3.1% for atenolol, but the difference between the drugs was not significant [1.8%; 95% confidence interval (Cl) - 1.3%, 4.9%]. There was a significant increase in the reporting of cough and runny nose in those on captopril compared with atenolol. A health index increased by 1.1% with captopril in comparison with no change on atenolol (difference 1.1%; 95% Cl - 2.0%, 4.2%). Psychological well-being was measured using the Symptom Rating Test. The improvement in total score was 1.4% with captopril and 2.3% with atenolol. The difference of 0.9% was not statistically significant (95% Cl - 1.2%, 3.0%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Expanded outpatient surgery for pediatric patients makes it difficult to provide an unhurried and thorough preoperative visit. A useful component could be a videotape to be seen by parents at the time of their initial hospital visit. For this study, a videotape was made that included an actual induction of anesthesia procedure, information about pediatric anesthesia, and a discussion of the risks of injury or death during anesthesia. To decrease anxiety from discussion of risk, monitoring equipment was shown and explained. This survey investigated whether, after seeing the tape, the parents of children scheduled for outpatient surgery thought they were better informed and less anxious about the child's anesthetic. During a preoperative clinic visit, an interviewer introduced the tape and its purpose to 31 parents of 25 children, then asked a series of standard questions. When asked directly, most parents (74%) said the film did not change their concerns about the anesthetic, although 42% of the parents of the children with no surgical history reported decreased concern. In contrast, 84% to 97% of the parents considered seven specific aspects of the film to be helpful in reducing concern. Half were reminded of issues to be discussed with the child's anesthesiologist. Most parents (65%) appeared to accept discussion of the risk of perioperative death, although some had strongly negative reactions. The results suggest that a supportive preoperative tape can acquaint parents with the basis for anesthesiologists' concerns and facilitate the preoperative visit. Seeing an actual anesthetic may help to reassure parents about the anesthetic care their children will receive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Corroborating a typology of rape proposed 10 years earlier, a recent demographic study of 1,000 incidents of rape concluded that the two predominant types of assault were blitz and confidence rape. Blitz rape is characterized by sudden surprise attack by an unknown assailant using force or the threat of violence to gain control over the victim. In confidence rape, the assailant is known to some degree, however slight, and gains control over his victim by winning her trust. The characteristic details that differentiate one type of rape from the other suggest that the psychological impact on the victim will differ according to the type of rape. Specific clinical approaches for the mental health care of each victim group need to be provided. The immediate concerns of blitz rape victims center around their sense of safety, their fear that the rapist may return, and their dismay at having failed to ward off their attacker. They may respond like typical trauma victims with nightmares, flashbacks, sleep and appetite disturbances, heightened startle responses, anxiety, and depression. Treatment--usually sought soon after the rape--may include psychotherapy, medication, and behavioral desensitization. The confidence rape victims' chief concerns are guilt and self-blame. The rape may be revealed only years later. There is often significant delay between the rape and the victims' request for help. The victims need to be assured that they are deserving of help and need the meaning and definition of rape clarified. Providing services may require active and sustained involvement on the part of clinicians. Confidence rape victims will have strong doubts about their ability to discern who is truly trustworthy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Ascents to altitudes above 3,050 m have been shown to cause adverse changes in symptoms and moods. The severity of these changes may depend not only on the altitude and rate of climb, but also on the length of stay and the effort expended to reach the desired altitude. In order to better understand how these factors influence symptom and mood changes during a climb, this study systematically assessed symptoms and moods during an ascent to 3,630 m. Self-rated symptoms and moods were determined in seven male volunteers over a period of 7 days (d) during a climb to 3,630 m of Mount Sanford, AK. The subjects were tested five times--twice at 2,225 m, then at 2,530, 3,080, and 3,630 m. Symptoms and moods were assessed with the Environmental Symptoms Questionnaire (ESQ) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS), respectively. Seven symptom factors and two mood factors were found to be adversely affected over time by the changes in altitude. More specifically, the subjects experienced more respiratory acute mountain sickness (AMS), exertion stress, and muscular discomfort and they were also colder, less alert, less vigorous, and more fatigued at higher elevations. These changes occurred primarily at 3,630 m and most also occurred at 3,080 m.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Parental presence at induction of anaesthesia is desirable if it makes the child happier and more cooperative. This study evaluated the emotional and behavioural responses of children to being accompanied by a parent at induction of anaesthesia in a paediatric day-care surgical centre. One hundred and thirty-four patients (aged 2-10 yr, ASA physical status I or II) were divided into two groups by day of surgery, to have a parent present at induction of anaesthesia (treatment group), or to be unaccompanied (control group). Before, and at one week after surgery, the child's fears and behaviour were scored by the Hospital Fears Inventory (HFI) and Behavioural Questionnaire (BQ), and parental anxiety by the Parents' Questionnaire (PQ) before and at one week after surgery. The Global Mood Scale (GMS) was used to assess the child's behaviour and the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) to assess the parent's anxiety on arrival for surgery and at induction of anaesthesia. All patients and parents were disturbed by the experience, but to the same degree in the treatment and control groups. Subgroups of "calm" and "anxious" parents were identified by a median split of their preoperative VAS scores. Children in the "calm-treatment," "calm-control" and "anxious-control" subgroups were similarly upset at induction. Children in the "anxious-treatment" subgroup were the most disturbed at induction, and significantly more than those in the "anxious-control" subgroup. Preoperative parental anxiety levels also correlated with the child's fears and behaviour one week after surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Alprazolam is a widely used antianxiety agent, yet relatively little is known about the relationship between chronic oral doses and steady-state plasma levels. This study examines the relationship over a wide range of therapeutic doses. We conducted a parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 36 patients with agoraphobia with panic attacks, or panic disorder with limited phobic avoidance based on DSM-III criteria. Patients received alprazolam (N = 25) or placebo (N = 11) beginning at 1 mg/day and increased weekly until either a maximum tolerated dose or 10 mg/day was achieved. Dosages were then gradually tapered according to a predetermined schedule. The entire study period lasted 14 weeks. Laboratory and clinical assessments were conducted weekly. Doses up to 6 mg/day were tolerated by 80% of patients on alprazolam and doses of 10 mg/day were tolerated by 40% of patients. Twenty-seven percent of the placebo patients reached 10 tablets/day. In the alprazolam group, the principal cause of intolerance was sedation. Throughout the study no significant changes in vital signs or laboratory parameters were observed. Steady state alprazolam, 4-hydroxy alprazolam, and alpha-hydroxy alprazolam plasma levels were linearly related to dose. A 1 mg dosage increment produced, on the average, a corresponding 10 ng/ml increase in steady state level of the parent drug. Significant response was observed in subjects who achieved concentrations greater than 20 ng/ml, with a maximum of 81% of the samples classified as responders within the 60 ng/ml and above group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

1. The loss of an attachment to a loved person or of some other significant attachment leads to a prolonged period of distress and disability. 2. The upset feelings are usually associated with reduction in cognitive effectiveness and problem-solving capacity, the magnitude of which is dependent on the intensity and duration of emotional arousal. There is a reduced capacity for collecting and processing information and for access to relevant memories that associate significant meaning to perceptions. There is also a deterioration in the clarity of the person's self-concept and in his capacity to assess his ability to persevere in the face of discomfort, which weakens his will to struggle. 3. The disability following loss of an attachment is the product of three interlocking factors: (a) the pain of the rupture in the bond and the agony of coming to terms with this reality, (b) the handicapping privation of the missing assets previously derived from the lost person or resource, and (c) the cognitive erosion and reduction in problem-solving capacities and of the will to persevere. 4. These factors may lead to poor mental health in the form of an acute adjustment disorder, or else of chronic psychopathology if the individual uses maladaptive ways of trying to escape his burdens through alienation from reality or through the irrational mechanisms of psychoneurotic symptoms, or if prolonged emotional tension leads to malfunctioning of a bodily system. On the other hand, if the individual masters his problems by working out ways of effective coping, he may emerge from the experience with increased competence and resilience. 5. Eventual mastery of the burdensome experience involves reorganization of the individual's "assumptive world," namely of his intrapsychic maps of external reality and his internal system for guiding and motivating his behavior, which have been disorganized by the loss of their anchorage in the ruptured attachment. 6. This reorganization is helped by the following: a. The maintenance of hope of eventual personal mastery that provides a basis for continued striving. b. Regular activity through adhering to a daily schedule of work and social interaction, even though this initially provides little emotional satisfaction and seems empty and meaningless. c. Seeking support from other people in compensating for current deficits and in helping lower the intensity of emotional arousal. d. Repeatedly remembering the values and guidance the person used to derive from the old attachments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This study tested the hypothesis that cortical noradrenaline (NA) depletion induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) widens attentional span, impairing the acquisition of conditioning to an explicit stimulus while enhancing conditioning to contextual stimuli. Sham-operated and NA-depleted rats were exposed to pairings of an auditory (clicker) CS and (footshock) US in a distinctive environment. Half of the lesioned and half of the control animals were trained with a short trace interval between presentations of clicker and shock, and half with a long trace. Associative learning theory predicts that a long trace interval should bias intact animals towards stronger contextual conditioning and, in contrast, a short trace interval should bias controls towards stronger CS conditioning. During testing, NA-depleted animals showed impaired fear conditioning to explicit cues, compared with controls, indicated by their reduced suppression of drinking when the CS was introduced into a separate, lick-operant chamber. In contrast, the same animals exhibited enhanced fear of contextual cues, as shown by their greater preference for a "safe" environment over the one in which they were shocked. The behavioral and plasma corticosterone responses of individual animals to the CS were positively correlated in both the lesion and sham groups. Corticosterone levels corroborated the impairment in CS conditioning caused by the lesion. In contrast, behavioral and corticosterone responses to contextual stimuli were not significantly correlated in either group, and there was no enhancement of the corticosterone response to contextual stimuli in the lesioned animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A recent study on acceptance of dental treatment among Swedish children (11) showed that the frequency of dental fear was 3% in 4-16 year-olds. Eight percent of the children sometimes reacted in such a way that treatment could not be carried out without restraint or excessive delay. More than every other 3-year-old child resisted in some way. Positive behavior and cooperation improved with increasing age, the improvement being most pronounced among the youngest children. It was also shown that negative or no acceptance increased by each new appointment in preschool children with a large amount of treatment need. Behavior shaping is a combination of tell-show-do and positive reinforcement. It includes the following parts: Tell-show-do. Positive reinforcement. Observation of the reactions of the child. Rating the acceptance of the child. If positive: positive reinforcement and introduction of a new step. If not positive: further training on the specific step. Repetition of these parts according to a hierarchy of treatment steps from the easiest to the most difficult to accept. The child's behavior is observed and rated according to the categories of behavior as in Table 1. The treatment aims at building up the child's confidence and to attain positive acceptance of dental treatment. The child's behavior is governed by its experience, and by the way it is met in the specific situation. First, inform the child and the parent about the procedures. Try to establish a good relationship with the child and parent. Observe and be sensitive to all signals from the child and parent, especially the non-verbal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The measurement of complex behavioral phenomena like dental fear requires allegiance to two great domains that often seem to conflict with one another: natural scientific method and the seemingly unpredictable human psyche. The need to preserve strict objectivity in scientific observations and yet flexibility enough to appreciate the contextual facets of psychological and social variables are a difficult combination. There are differing scientific philosophies that are presented here not as incompatible opposites, but as a complementary team of approaches to aid human behavioral problem solving in dental clinical science. The "positivistic falsification" tradition requires "objective" double-blind type experimental hypothesis testing, while the "phenomenologic-hermaneutic" tradition requires the researcher to grasp the context of the phenomena to be studied in order to understand and thereafter test the most relevant variables. Thus, there is a need for both traditions, since the relevant variables should be systematically evaluated (qualitative phase) before they can be adequately tested (quantitative phase). Clinical evaluation of dental fear draws on information gathered about a patient's verbal (cognitive) descriptions, behavioral symptoms and physiologic reactions. Commonly used psychometric testing scales developed to differentiate fears specific to dentistry, as opposed to general anxiety syndromes, are the result of observations made in several qualitative studies that not all dental phobics have general anxiety symptoms. Examples of these and other tests are listed and described, noting that verbal and behavioral testing appear more reliable than physiologic indicators. The patient's subjective sense of improvement is deemed to be an important factor in their confidence and efficacy to deal with the threats that the dental environment can bring them.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In this article the most important etiologic factors related to dental anxiety are presented and form the basis for the exposition of a model for the psychologic development of dental anxiety. The model shows that personality factors related to emotion and cognition can influence the development of dental anxiety. In order for the anxiety to develop and become manifest it is also necessary that: 1: the individual experiences a given stimulus as presenting a physical threat, e.g. in the form of pain, 2: the individual has been exposed to an experience or a learning situation involving the stimulus, and finally, 3: the individual in connection with this stimulus, experiences somatic reactions such as sweating, abdominal discomfort or tachycardia. This triad interacts in such a way that the individual elements can reinforce each other and thus increase the anxiety, (full-drawn arrow) or also the opposite, (stipled arrow). In this way pain control (anesthesia/sedation), positive reinforcement/information or bodily control (relaxation/biofeedback) will contribute to attenuate or prevent the development and manifestation of anxiety. The model further demonstrates that odontophobia also develops and is contingent upon the opinions, attitudes, feelings and behavior with regard to dental health, hygiene and dentists which is present in the social relationships in the family, the group, social class and the culture. This complex social psychologic process is called socialization, and it expresses the individuals more or less conscious adaptation to society. An important part of this process is imitation or social learning, which forms an important aspect of human development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Odontophobia is a rather unique phobia with special psychosomatic components that impact on the dental health of odontophobic persons. It also has psychosocial components largely as a result of destruction of the teeth and subsequent embarrassment that can affect a person and cause a vicious cycle of dental fear. The phenomenon is facilitated by misunderstandings and myths generated by both patients and dentists. The most common reasons given in the literature for such strong fears of dental treatment are: 1) bad experiences in childhood for 85% of cases, 2) feeling of powerlessness and lack of control over personal emotional reactions and over the social situation in the dental chair, 3) social learning processes in which the image of the dentist is cast in a negative light by the mass media or by the person's relatives or friends and 4) that the person has other psychologic problems (in 20% of cases), such as serious phobias and/or neuroses. A strategy of researching and thus tackling the problem is presented which focuses on three essential targets that require studying and change: 1) the community at large and their image of the dentist, 2) the patient role and 3) the dentist role. Various model projects are presented along with their diagnostic systems. These are seen to focus in varying degrees on different elements of the target groups that effect the dentist-patient relationship but the need to come out into the community and make the social environment right for these patients is an important factor in all strategies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Emotional intelligence involves the accurate appraisal and expression of emotions in oneself and others and the regulation of emotion in a way that enhances living. One aspect of emotional intelligence is the ability to recognize the consensually agreed upon emotional qualities of objects in the environment. One hundred thirty-nine adults viewed 18 reproductions of faces, color swatches, and abstract designs and rated the emotional content of these visual stimuli. Three scores were extracted, including consensual accuracy, amount, and range of emotion perceived. These scores were compared with other aspects of emotional intelligence such as empathy and related to constructs such as alexithymia and neuroticism. A general ability to perceive consensual emotional content in visual stimuli was found, and it was most strongly associated with the ability to respond empathically to others.

The interaction of clomipramine and moclobemide with alcohol was compared in a double blind parallel groups study in 24 healthy volunteers. Moclobemide was given at the highest recommended therapeutic dose (200 mg t.i.d.) and clomipramine in a subtherapeutic dose (25 mg b.i.d.) because of its poor tolerance in healthy subjects. Psychometric evaluations were performed during a placebo run-in phase; after a 5-day treatment period; assessments were made before, and again 1 h and 4 h after alcohol ingestion. Alcohol doses were pre-determined for each subject in order to produce a blood alcohol concentration of 0.6 g/l 1 h after alcohol intake and this individual alcohol dose was given on test days. The day before alcohol intake tests for autonomic functions were made to assess the anticholinergic effects of the drugs. Alcohol significantly increased body sway, decreased critical flicker fusion frequency, prolonged choice reaction time, impaired copying skills, impaired memory and increased the subjective feelings of satisfaction and tension. Drugs increased the effect of alcohol on body sway and this was essentially due to clomipramine. Clomipramine both without and with alcohol increased body sway, prolonged choice reaction time more than did moclobemide. Clomipramine seemed to diminish alcohol-induced memory impairment in one of the memory tests used. Subjects taking clomipramine had significantly more adverse effects after alcohol ingestion than did subjects of the moclobemide group. In contrast to moclobemide, clomipramine produced a moderate but significant drop in standing systolic blood pressure and a clear inhibition of salivary excretion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The causes, extent, and quantification of depression in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients have been a concern of psychologists and physicians. To assess depression and its possible causes, 57 patients with ESRD treated with hemodialysis (HD, n = 43) or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD, n = 14) and 16 patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) were interviewed and completed the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and the Illness Effects Questionnaire (IEQ). An ESRD severity coefficient was used to measure chronic illness severity in the patients treated with dialysis, and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine levels were used to assess severity of renal disease and adequacy of treatment. A cognitive item subset of the BDI (CDI) was used as a measure of depression. When patients treated with HD and CAPD were compared, CAPD patients were younger, had a shorter duration of dialysis treatment, and less severe medical illness, but the groups did not differ on the IEQ, BDI, or CDI. The IEQ did not correlate with age or disease variables. Both the CDI and the total BDI scores correlated with the IEQ. Perception of illness (IEQ) correlated significantly with cognitive depression for the CAPD and HD patients. For CAPD patients only, a significant correlation between the IEQ and severity of medical illness was obtained. Perception of illness and creatinine concentration were strongly correlated with cognitive depression in the patients with CRI as well. For all renal patients, level of depression was more strongly related to perception of illness than physical illness variables.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This paper examines the relationships between instrumental and emotional social support and the experience of grief reaction in a sample of 180 gay men who had lost a lover or close friend to AIDS during the first 5 years of the epidemic. Structured, face-to-face interviews were conducted in mid-1985. Grief reaction was assessed through a newly developed 12-item scale (alpha = 0.85). Availability and adequacy of instrumental and emotional support were assessed with reference to the tasks of caretaking and emotional pain experienced during the lover's or close friend's illness with AIDS. The findings indicate that gay men who lost a lover or close friend to AIDS experienced symptoms of grief similar to those reported in studies of bereaved spouses and parents. The intensity of these grief reactions appears to be influenced by a number of factors. First, more intense grief reactions were observed among those who had taken care of their lover or close friend during his illness compared with those who did not act as caretakers. Second, while the simple availability of instrumental and emotional support was unrelated to grief reactions, the perceived adequacy of both types of support was strongly related to the level of grief. Respondents who had received inadequate help with caretaking responsibilities experienced more intense symptoms of grief subsequent to the death compared with those who reported receiving adequate caretaking support. Similarly, respondents who did not obtain adequate emotional support for the pain they experienced during the course of the illness reported more intense symptoms of grief compared with those who felt they had received adequate support.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of an opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone (NAL), were studied on the changes in pituitary hormone secretion induced by emotional stress. Male Wistar rats were trained with tone stimuli paired with electric footshocks and tested with the tone and environmental cue signals for emotional stress of fear acquired by learning as described previously (Onaka et al. 1988). Rats received s.c. injected NAL 30 min before testing at doses of 0, 0.2, 1.0, 5.0 and 25.0 mg/kg b.w. Half the rats were injected with 0.5 M NaCl (20 ml/kg b.w.) together with NAL. In these hypertonic rats plasma vasopressin level was slightly increased after NAL. The increment was statistically significant in control groups but not in experimental groups. However the suppression of vasopressin secretion by emotional stimuli was not changed by NAL. Plasma oxytocin levels were extremely high and not significantly different among experimental, unshocked control and untested control groups. NAL further increased the oxytocin level dose-dependently. NAL did not significantly change plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) levels and hence did not modify the augmentative response in ACTH secretion to emotional stimuli. Plasma prolactin level was significantly elevated after emotional stimuli and NAL depressed the prolactin level in each of experimental and control groups. After NAL, the magnitude of the facilitatory response in prolactin secretion to emotional stimuli was decreased. Motor activity and its suppressive response to emotional stimuli were not influenced by NAL. In another half of rats under a normal osmotic condition the vasopressin response to emotional stimuli was not affected by NAL. NAL further augmented potentiation of oxytocin secretion after emotional stimuli dose-dependently.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There were a total of 100 subjects, of which 50 were children and 50 were mothers. The first time, the doctor lends the child the fairy tale book. The second time, the child is treated under the audio-analgesia with the same fairy tale book and the child borrows on other fairy tale book. The third time, the child is also treated under the audio-analgesia. The child, the mother and the doctor answered the questionnaires. Changes in internal behavior were observed by polygraph system. The subjects comprised a total 13 children (4 to 6 years), of which 6 were males and 7 were females. The first time, the emotional reactions were observed when the subjects were stimulated by the engine, the turbine and the crying for 10 seconds each. The Second and third time, the emotional reactions were also observed under the audio-analgesia. The change ratios were analyzed with respect to Plethysmogram, Respiration Curve and Galvanic Skin Reflex. The results are summarized as follows: 1. 91.8% of the parents answered "I would like my children to be treated under the audio-analgesia using fairy tales." 2. 73.5% (2nd time) and 80% (3rd time) of the children answered "The treatment has been pleasant." 3. 61.2% (2nd time) and 64% (3rd time) of the doctors answered "The anxiety and fear was reduced by the approach." 4. With the engine stimulation, the emotional reaction decreased in the order, of the 1st time greater than 3rd time greater than 2nd time. There were significant differences between the 1st time and the 2nd time, and also between the 1st time and the 3rd time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The relationship between psychosomatic characteristics and the risk of breast cancer was studied in women aged from 35 to 65 years, presenting with a clinically palpable breast tumor. To permit a double-blind design, the psychosomatic evaluation obtained by a long open-ended interview was completed before any diagnostic procedure. On the basis of this evaluation, the psychosomatician concluded that the patient was at high or low risk of serious disease. Several other psychological parameters were also recorded, and the diagnosis was then established by cytology or histology. Nineteen of the 77 patients finally included in the study had histologically verified breast cancer. The relative risk (RR) of breast cancer associated with psychosomatic factors was estimated by multivariate unconditional logistic regression, taking into account age at interview, family history of breast cancer, parity and age at first delivery. A significant relationship (p = 0.02) was found between psychosomatic prognosis and the relative risk of breast cancer. Both the low and high risk groups identified by the psychosomaticians had a similar mean age (46.1 versus 47.6 years). Fundamental mental structure played a predominant role in the risk of breast cancer, since no case was observed among the 18 patients with well organized neurosis, and all the 19 malignant tumors were observed among patients with poorly organized neurosis or psychosis (RR = 7.8, p = 0.009). In addition, excessive self-esteem (RR = 10.0, p = 0.02), hysterical disposition (RR = 7.5, p = 0.02), and unresolved recent grief (RR = 8.2, p = 0.05), were found to be significantly related to the risk of breast cancer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Perinatal loss prompts a unique bereavement for parents and their families that is unlike the mourning process experienced at the death of other loved ones. The Support Center For Perinatal and Childhood Death has developed a comprehensive program to provide support, counseling, and information to families who experience miscarriage, stillbirth, fetal anomalies, and therapeutic abortion for genetic or congenital abnormalities. The impact of perinatal loss is felt not only in the real loss of the wished-for child but also in the loss of self-esteem, the role of parent, and the loss of confidence in the ability to produce a healthy child. The emotional experience of miscarriage or stillbirth creates an atmosphere of despair and confusion for families anticipating a joyous event. The presence of a support counselor and medical caregivers at this time can help parents to navigate the crisis surrounding the loss in ways that promote a healthy grieving process and avert pathologic adaptations. Prenatal, intrapartum, and postpartum counseling opportunities are afforded to families as the situation and parental needs dictate. Services also are extended to other family members, with particular attention to surviving siblings who might be vulnerable to the consequences of unresolved or unacknowledged grief. Grief is experienced as a long-term process, which frequently emerges fully after discharge from the hospital and lasts well beyond the interest and stamina of supportive family members and friends. Support groups, which meet the specific needs of families who experience perinatal loss, contemplate subsequent pregnancy, or face the prenatal decision to terminate a genetically or congenitally compromised pregnancy, have been run successfully for a period of several years. Beyond the experience of intrapartum loss in the delivery room, the experience comes full circle for families who enter the delivery room again with a subsequent child. The expressed need for support in acknowledging the rekindled memories of prior loss at this poignant time are matched only by parents' needs to find reassuring ways of differentiating healthy newborns from the memory of those who died. It is often at the time of the subsequent birth that the memory of the lost child can take its proper place in the family. Stein expresses the essence of grief work and resolve: Mourning is not just feeling sad. It is the specific psychological process by which human beings become able to give up some of the feelings they have invested in a person who no longer exists, and extend their love to the living. Mourning is hard, emotional work.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Autistic and nonautistic retarded adolescents and young adults, individually matched for chronological age and performance on the British Picture Vocabulary Scale (BPVS; Dunn, Dunn, & Whetton, 1982), were compared on those items of the BPVS that independent raters judged (a) emotion-related and (b) highly abstract. Compared to control subjects, autistic individuals scored lower on emotion-related vis-à-vis emotion-unrelated items, an effect that could not be attributed to the "social content" of the items. However, autistic and nonautistic subjects achieved similar scores when responding to highly abstract vis-à-vis "concrete" words of the BPVS. The findings suggest that autistic individuals have specific impairments in grasping emotion-related concepts. They also suggest the need for further study of autistic and nonautistic retarded subjects' difficulties in abstracting. The results have a bearing on the interpretation of the BPVS and on the use of this test as a matching procedure.

Sixty patients with agoraphobia with panic attacks or panic disorder who completed a 4-month combined drug and behavioral group treatment program and were discharged on a regimen of alprazolam were interviewed 1.7 to 4 years (mean, 2.5 years) after discharge. At follow-up (FU), 18 (30%) of the patients had discontinued alprazolam treatment, 36 (60%) continued with a lower dose, 3 (5%) received the same dose, and 3 (5%) received an increased dose compared with discharge. A lower frequency of panic attacks at admission was associated with an increased ability to discontinue alprazolam treatment. There was little evidence of tolerance to the antipanic effects of alprazolam. Panic attack frequency dropped from a mean of 4.4 attacks per week at admission to 1.2 attacks per week at discharge and remained decreased at 1.6 attacks per week at FU. Treatment gains in the program were maintained or enhanced on 11 of 14 behavioral measures at FU and were similar in the groups that were receiving and not receiving alprazolam. Patients receiving nonpharmacologic therapy in the FU period tended to have greater symptom severity, possibly due to self-selection. A lifetime diagnosis of major depression at admission was associated with higher levels of depressive and anxiety symptoms and higher alprazolam doses at FU. Episodes of major depression were common in the FU period and did not appear to be prevented by initial alprazolam and behavioral therapy or by low-dose alprazolam maintenance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We tested the hypothesis that hostility is associated with increased relative risk (RR) for coronary death and nonfatal myocardial infarction among participants in the prospective Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT). Cases (N = 192) were compared with matched controls (N = 384) on a variety of behavioral characteristics associated with the Type A behavior pattern (TABP), including three different but interrelated components of hostility. Logistic regression analyses revealed that only two of the eight TABP attributes analyzed on the overall sample were significant. Only total Potential for Hostility, when dichotomized into "low" and "high" categories, and the antagonistic interpersonal component of hostility (Stylistic Hostility) had positive unadjusted associations with coronary heart disease (CHD) incidence (RR = 1.7, p = 0.003; and RR = 1.5, p = 0.016, respectively). The global TABP and related paralinguistic attributes were not significantly related to CHD incidence. After adjustment for the traditional risk factors of age, serum cholesterol, blood pressure, and cigarette smoking, only dichotomous Potential for Hostility showed a significant relative risk (RR = 1.5, p = 0.032). Ordinal logistic regression revealed a nonsignificant effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of consumption of low doses of ethanol (0.75 mg/kg) on spectral components of the EEG were investigated in 24 21-25-year-old males. A comparison of mean spectral power in 4 frequency bands (4-7 Hz, 7.5-9 Hz, 9-12 Hz, and 12-20 Hz) at 90 min post consumption revealed that ethanol, as opposed to placebo, significantly increased power in the two slower frequency bands, in both posterior and anterior leads. A reduction in the frequency at which power values peaked in the theta (4-7 Hz), fast alpha (9-12 Hz), and beta (12-20 Hz) frequency ranges was also seen following ethanol consumption. The ethanol induced lowering of peak power in the fast alpha range was observed in all 4 leads (F4-C4, P4-O2, F3-C3, and P3-O1), whereas the frequency changes in the theta and beta frequencies were only significant in a frontal lead. Ethanol was also noted to produce a decrease in the stability of the EEG in the fast alpha band as quantified by the coefficient of variation of power. Subjective response to ethanol was observed to vary depending on the subjects' pre-drug EEG pattern. Men with high amounts of fast alpha activity at baseline, in lead P4-O2, reported feeling less 'high' and less overall feelings of intoxication after ethanol than the men with lower amounts of pre-drug fast alpha waves. In addition, subjects were sorted into 'low' and 'moderate' drinkers depending on their quantity and frequency of drinking over the previous 6 month period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Suzanne Retzinger's article, "A Theory of Mental Illness," provides further untangling of the complex links between social relationships and psychopathology. Those links have been demonstrated in such diverse areas as the impact of family relationships on relapse (e.g., Brown et al. 1972), the predictive importance of social relations to outcome (e.g., Strauss and Carpenter 1977), and the genetic connections between social relationship traits and vulnerability to psychopathology (Kendler et al. 1982). The research presented here focuses on social relationships with special emphasis on stigma in those relationships and its impact on disorder. It also has the valuable role of forging connections between the more abstract labeling theory and the actual behaviors of people as viewed in their interaction.

The influence of eccrine sweating on transepidermal water loss (TEWL) was investigated. TEWL was simultaneously measured on both forearms, with and without topical inactivation of the eccrine sweat glands by 0.3 ml of 0.5% aqueous scopolamine hydrobromide (HBr), applied under 1 h occlusive patches. The degree of sweat inhibition, after exercise, was measured at 2, 3 and 4 h after patch removal. In 42 out of 44 subjects, complete sweat inhibition (on exercise) was achieved only at 4 h after removal. After a 15-min rest in a room at 20 degrees C, the pre-exercise TEWL values (at 4 h) on the treated and untreated sites were not different (P greater than 0.05), in 38 out of 44 subjects. By this rest period, sweating due to slight physical, thermal or even emotional stimuli may be prevented in most subjects. In the other 6 subjects, the pre-exercise TEWL values (at 4 h) on the untreated site were 1-1.8 g/m2h higher than (P less than 0.001) on the treated site, due to emotional sweating. Thus, accurate baseline TEWL measurements may only be made after anticholinergic suppression of the sweat glands. In this way, accurate TEWL measurements may be made even outside favourable laboratory conditions, at industrial sites etc., where circumstances are far from ideal. The effect of this agent applied to a skin site previously irritated artificially by a 24-h occlusive sodium lauryl sulphate (SLS, 0.3 ml, 0.5% aq.) patch, was also investigated in 17 subjects. In all subjects, 4 h after removal, sweating (on exercise) was completely inhibited on the scopolamine-treated site, pre-irritated with SLS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Adolescent pregnancy and adolescent drug use are important clinical and public health problems. Yet, few studies have systematically investigated the patterns of substance use among pregnant and parenting adolescents. Because adverse outcomes are not found uniformly for all adolescent mothers, use of illicit drugs may be a key factor in determining which mothers and their infants will have poor outcomes. In this study, the patterns of drug use are described and differences in the demographic and psychosocial profile among 253 pregnant adolescents are investigated. Results obtained from interviews and urine assay for marijuana and cocaine indicate that lifetime use was 84% for alcohol, 62% for marijuana, and 23% for cocaine, whereas use in the past year was 40% for marijuana and 17% for cocaine. Compared with nonusers, pregnant adolescent drug users were more likely to be North American black, have a history of elective abortion and venereal disease, report more negative life events and violence during pregnancy, and receive more support from the father of the baby who was more likely to use marijuana and cocaine (P less than .01). Furthermore, according to logistic regression analysis results after controlling for age and ethnicity, adolescents who used illicit substances in the past year were three times more likely to have a male partner who used marijuana or cocaine and were two times more likely to have a history of venereal disease compared with nonusers. The findings suggest that drug use, whether as a mechanism or a marker, is associated with social and medical characteristics that are likely to contribute to negative outcomes among adolescent mothers and their infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Rats exposed to inescapable tailshock fail to learn a shuttle-escape task 24 hours later, an effect referred to as "learned helplessness." However, within most rat strains only 10-50% of the animals tested develop this syndrome. In the present study a significant correlation was found between rats that displayed learned helplessness on the first test and those that displayed learned helplessness on a second test performed either 2 weeks (r = .80, p less than 0.001) or 4 weeks (r = .74, p less than 0.001) later. An analysis of the mean session latency of the shuttlebox task in these two tests suggested a bimodal distribution of animals that failed and learned. A significant correlation was found between individual rats that learned this task on the first test and those which learned this task 2 or 4 weeks later. Similarly, in the "behavioral despair" test, a significant correlation was observed for floating time for individual rats on the first test and on the second test either 2 (r = .72, p less than 0.001) or 4 weeks (r = .63, p less than 0.001) later. However, for the forced-swim test, a unimodal and rather graded response was observed across individual subjects. Thus, performance on the first round predicted performance on the second round in both models. When rats experienced the learned helplessness paradigm on round 1 and the behavioral despair paradigm in round 2, there was no correlation between rats that displayed helplessness following inescapable tailshock and the rats that demonstrated "behavioral despair" on a later test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Hartnup disease is an inborn abnormality of renal and intestinal transport involving the neutral amino acids. Intermittent pellagra-like rash, attacks of cerebellar ataxia and psychiatric disturbance are characteristic symptoms of this disease. We described here a patient with adult-onset Hartnup disease who presented unique neuropsychiatric symptoms but no dermatologic symptoms, and reported features of amino acids transport in this patient and his family. The patient, a man aged 37 years, was referred to us because of lasting daytime bruxism. He is the second child of healthy parents who are first cousin; his elder brother who has been mentally retarded became bed-ridden and died at 32 years of age. His younger brother is completely healthy. Although the patient's development in infancy has been slightly retarded, he completed compulsory 9-year education. At 29 years of age, he experienced episodes of diplopia, ataxic gait and insomnia, and at 33 years of age, of transient stupor. There had been no history of photosensitivity or dermatitis. On neurological examination, there were trunkal ataxia, increased muscular tone and decreased mental activity besides bruxism. These symptoms remained unchanged despite of several medications including trihexyphenidyl, diazepam, halloperidol, tiapride and sulpiride. Two months later, the patient became stuporous; bruxism and hypertonicity became exaggerated. Myerson's sign, sucking reflex and grasp reflex in both hand appeared. There was no dermal lesion. A cranial computed tomography revealed a small calcification in the right frontal subcortical region and a single photon emission tomography indicated possible bifrontal hypoperfusion. Electroencephalograms demonstrated non-specific slowing. Somatosensory evoked potentials and nerve conduction velocities were normal. There were constant indicanuria and amino-aciduria.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Flunarizine hydrochloride (FZ), a calcium entry blockade, has been used nationwide in Japan as a cerebral active vasodilator since October, 1984. The present paper reports 31 cases of FZ-induced Parkinsonism, depression and akathisia, referred to our hospital between October 1986 and September 1988. Out of the 31 patients, four including two with Parkinson's disease and one each with progressive supranuclear palsy and olivopontocerebellar atrophy showed worsening of their parkinsonian symptoms within a few months after FZ administration. The remaining 27 patients (7 males and 20 females) newly developed Parkinsonism after treatment with FZ. Symptoms appeared one week to two years (mean: 6.1 months) after starting FZ of a daily dose of 10 mg. FZ had been used in 6 patients for cerebrovascular episodes confirmed by clinical history or brain CT, and in the remainder, for dizziness, light-headedness, hypertension, amnesia or hypochondric neurotic complaints. Akinesia and bradykinesia progressed rather rapidly after onset, and patients became unambulatory within several months. Symptoms had worsened, and L-dopa, anticholinergic drugs, and bromocriptine had been ineffective until FZ was discontinued. Their Parkinsonism was characterized by marked akinesia, bradykinesia, and moderate rigidity. Masked face was seen in most of them. Tremor was absent at rest, and induced in 12 patients by posture and/or action. Sixteen patients were accompanied by depression, and five, by akathisia. Improvement began several weeks after withdrawal of FZ, and most patients recovered almost completely within a few months although mild rigidity and bradykinesia remained in some.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We hypothesized that the dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S)/cortisol ratio, which has been used as an index of adrenocortical function, would be altered in panic disorder patients and would change after treatment. We evaluated 10 male and 14 female outpatients meeting DSM-III-R criteria for panic disorder. Of these 24 subjects, 13 were treated with clonazepam, 8 were treated with alprazolam, and 3 were treated with placebo as part of a double-blind study. The DHEA-S/cortisol ratio values in the 24 patients with panic disorder (mean = 20.5, SD = 11.6) were significantly higher than those of a group of 60 normal controls (mean = 11.5, SD = 6.01) and were also significantly higher than those of a group of 22 depressed patients (mean = 10.6, SD = 6.33). Although there was no significant difference in the pretreatment DHEA-S/cortisol ratio values between male (mean = 23.6, SD = 11.8) and female (mean = 18.2, SD = 11.3) panic disorder patients, the effects of treatment on this ratio differed between the two sexes. In fact, in the female patients there was a significant decrease in the DHEA-S/cortisol ratio at the end of the study (mean = 15.1, SD = 7.9), while in the male patients there was no significant change in this ratio at the end of the study (mean = 30.2, SD = 21.4). No significant differences were noted between pretreatment and posttreatment DHEA-S/cortisol ratio values in patients treated with alprazolam (n = 8), in patients treated with clonazepam (n = 13), or in patients treated with placebo (n = 3).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Annually, over 3000 bone marrow transplants are performed worldwide involving HLA-identical sibling donors. However, only 30 percent of those patients who need a bone marrow transplant have a matched sibling donor. Programs have been developed to provide volunteer unrelated bone marrow donors for patients without sibling donors. Because bone marrow donation requires a high level of altruism, especially on the part of a donor unrelated to the patient, it is important to determine the effect of donation on the donor. Serious medical complications during the collection of marrow from related donors have been reported only rarely, but there have been no reports on the psychosocial and physical effects of the bone marrow donation process on volunteer unrelated bone marrow donors. The first 20 unrelated volunteers who donated bone marrow through the authors' volunteer bone marrow donor program were surveyed. They suffered no serious emotional or physical aftereffects. Seventeen of 20 donors reported that making the decision to donate was easy, and 16 reported making the decision to donate right away. Nine of 20 donors, however, stated that a friend or family member discouraged them from donating. All 20 donors thought that they were well prepared for the donation process. Four donors thought that the donation process required more time than they expected, but four donors thought the reverse. One person thought the process was more painful than they expected; however, 12 found the process to be less painful than expected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The "tension reduction hypothesis" of ethanol was investigated with respect to stress- and ethanol-induced changes of plasma catecholamines and their relations to changes in emotional state and performance. Twenty-two healthy male volunteers were tested under the influence of 0.8 g/kg ethanol and compared to 22 matched controls receiving a placebo drink. Stress was induced by mental arithmetic applied prior to and 45 min after fluid consumption. Plasma epinephrine (E) and norepinephrine (NE) obtained from an indwelling cannula inserted 50 min prior to stress application were determined prior to and after each stress session. Percentage changes were compared within and between groups and correlated with respective changes of emotional states and performance in mental arithmetic. While ethanol decreased performance and stress-related emotional arousal, it did not affect stress-induced changes in plasma catecholamines. Rather, the fluid (ethanol as well as placebo) increased NE levels. Emotional tension reduction was associated with low resting or average levels of E in the placebo group but this relationship was disrupted by ethanol. High NE resting levels and drink induced increases predicted emotional tension reduction with placebo but an increase in stress induced depression with alcohol. "Biochemical tension reduction" (represented by both reduced E and NE stress response) may be predicted from generally lower levels of activation and elation by alcohol but not with the placebo condition. Although performance was positively related to low NE resting levels and stress responses, no influence of alcohol on this relationship was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The critical care units of today are environments totally dedicated to implementing life saving and life supporting measures. The development of the critical care unit is such that now many critical care units offer specific specialised disease/surgical management e.g. the cardiothoracic unit, transplant centres. As the ability of the critical care units to offer extensive life supportive measures continually improves, the fact is that there is still an increased potential for death to occur in the critical care unit, more than in other acute areas. While the prime function of the critical care staff will always be to support and sustain the life of their patients for whom they care, they also have a responsibility to offer a caring and compassionate level of care to the dying critically ill patient and to ensure that they support the dying patients' relatives in every way that they can. The prospect of death (for the patient), and the actual loss of the patient (for the relatives/medical and nursing staff) can present a number of difficulties for all those involved. These difficulties, which will be identified in the course of the article, may if unresolved predispose to a poor and traumatic bereavement process for the relatives, while the critical care staff may experience possible feelings of frustration, helplessness and low morale. (Caughill, 1976). It is therefore the aim of this article to examine the role of the critical care nurse in caring for the dying patient in the intensive care areas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In the course of their care-giving activities nurses deal with family members as well as with patients. The dimension of family involvement becomes even more crucial when patients are hospitalised in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). The purpose of this study was to identify: 1. The perceived needs and anxiety levels of adult family members of ICU patients; 2. The relationship between perceived needs and situational anxiety levels; and 3. The sociodemographic factors having an influence on the needs and anxiety level of family members. Over a 10-week-period, a convenience sample of 207 subjects was formed from the total adult population of immediate family members visiting a patient in a 9-bed ICU of a 388-bed university hospital. The data were gathered by a face to face interview, a self-report questionnaire of the French version of the Critical Care Family Needs Inventory (Molter & Leske, 1983), and the A-Scale of the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (Spielberger, 1970). The major variables investigated were: family needs; situational anxiety; on-site sources of worry; level of knowledge with respect to the ICU setting from experience or pre-surgery education; and finally, sociodemographic data. The sample was predominantly female (75%) and the mean age was 45.43 s.d.-15.19, ranging from 18 to 91 years. The average number of respondents per family was 2.3 with a range of 1 to 5. The Situational Anxiety Scale of the STAI yielded a mean score of 47.88 +/- 12.02 ranging from 21 to 76.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Between 1981 and 1984, 93 stage I and II breast cancer patients were entered onto a trial at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) randomizing patients to excisional biopsy plus radiation v mastectomy. Between 1984 and 1987, 98 stage I and II breast cancer patients were entered onto a behavioral study in Pittsburgh, approximately 70% of whom elected to have breast conservation surgery. Patients at both sites were assessed three to five days postsurgery, and again at 3-month's follow-up, using a well-validated mood measure, the Profile of Mood States (POMS). There were no demographic or disease differences between the two samples. In the Pittsburgh sample, using a repeated measures multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) analysis, after adjusting for menopausal status and radiotherapy and chemotherapy toxicity, the conservation group was psychologically worse off (F = 2.7, P less than .03). For example, they were significantly more distressed over time (F = 5.5, P less than .02), and more depressed in general (F = 9.2, P less than .005). Using Karnofsky ratings, the two groups were identical in terms of disability at 3-month's follow-up. In contrast, for the NCI patients participating in the randomized trial, after adjusting for chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatments, reported overall distress decreased over time (F = 17.4, P less than .0001) for all patients, irrespective of treatment group, and the between-groups MANCOVA was not significant. Thus, when comparing the two samples, when "choice" played a major role, the conservation patients were psychologically worse off--at least at 3-month's follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Requesting an autopsy is never a pleasant or comfortable experience, either for physician or for family members. Sometimes the family has had previous unhappy experiences with this procedure, and certainly many clinicians have been repelled by sights, sounds, and behaviors they have observed in morgues. Such experiences can have far-reaching negative effects and reflect poorly upon the profession of pathology. Berger's important paper contains important messages for pathologists concerned with the performance of pediatric autopsies and for clinicians requesting consent. His paper should be read and heeded by both groups. Several studies have looked at factors that might affect autopsy rates, especially in perinatal deaths. Early separation of mother from baby emerged as an important factor in one of these, whereas maternal age, race, and sociocultural background played no important role. One of these studies investigated attitudes and experiences of the requesting physicians, and found these factors to be key determinants in the family's response to a request to perform a postmortem examination. One result of that study was that more experienced physicians were more likely to request a postmortem examination, and to receive an affirmative answer. The pediatric postmortem examination remains an indispensable part of clinical management. Its importance for science, clinical practice, and medical administration is beyond question. However, its greatest and most unique value is to the families of the deceased children. Clinicians and pathologists must continue to work together to ensure that this procedure is performed whenever indicated, that the information gained is maximized, and that the results are communicated to the family promptly, accurately, clearly, and with sensitivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

By using the STAI developed by Spielberger et al. we have investigated the validity and reliability of two scales, that is, State Anxiety (A-State) and Trait Anxiety (A-Trait), and at the same time have examined them under various conditions. The results obtained are as follows: 1) As a result of factor analysis concerning 40 items of the STAI used in this research, we have confirmed that both A-State and A-Trait have independent factor structures of their own, and that the items of the scales also carry their own validity. 2) After due consideration of the test-retest reliability of the two scales, we have found that A-Trait has rather high stability. Moreover, we have noticed that Cronbach's alpha coefficients, which show the reliability of the two scales, are high. In consequence, we have confirmed the high reliability of the two scales. 3) In comparing the scores of A-State and A-Trait obtained from young healthy people with those from healthy aged people, we have noticed that the aged get low scores on each of the two scales, and that each score distribution shows an excellent fit to the normal one. 4) We have found that A-State scores go up significantly when people are in a condition of emotional stress, but that there is not any change of A-Trait scores. 5) We have observed a significant increase of A-State scores at each noise level over 75 dB(A).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This article has summarized the psychosocial sequelae identified for the adult cancer survivor. The themes that have been identified relate to loss, compromise, and uncertainty. There is, as yet, no evidence of increased psychopathology in this population. Research on this subject is sparse and difficult to interpret. Consistent definitions of survival across studies is needed in order to compare findings. Although no specific length of time is precise for a given individual, information does exist that would assist in defining long-term survival for a given disease. The use of sensitive measures and appropriate comparison groups is an important consideration in future studies. Instruments that measure psychopathology have often been used; however, these instruments appear not to be sensitive to the more subtle levels of psychological distress and problems associated with long-term survival. Schipper and Levitt have emphasized the need for more discriminating tools. Spitzer and colleagues propose the use of in-depth psychological interviews as optimal in this regard. Comparison groups have varied from neighbors, friends, college students, psychiatric patients, and national surveys. In addition to a lack of consistency among these groups, questions have been raised in the literature as to what degree these groups represent the general population. Schipper and Levitt suggest that patients might best be used as their own controls and followed over time. Through increased understanding, strategies for prevention and intervention can be designed. An editorial in the newsletter for the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship states, "the strength of the survivorship movement can be measured, in part, by the fact that these activities have developed independently, without coordination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Previous studies of freezing and open-field activity have demonstrated that lactating rats are less fearful or less anxious than nonpregnant ones. The purpose of this investigation was to observe the behavior of mother rats in conflict tests, which are frequently used in studies on the neurobiology of anxiety. In the punished drinking test, in which licking from a water spout is punished by electric shocks, mothers (observed on Day 1 postpartum following 24 hr of water deprivation) were found to drink more than virgins. Mothers (Day 1 postpartum) also consumed more food than controls in an unfamiliar open field. In contrast, no difference between mothers (Day 5 postpartum) and virgins was present in the exploration of an electrified shock probe. The largest maternal anticonflict effects in the drinking and feeding tests were recorded when the females were tested with their pups. Increased punished drinking was also observed in virgin rats treated with the anxiolytic benzodiazepine midazolam. Water-deprived virgins and mothers did not differ in the shock titration test, a result suggesting that diminished pain reactivity was unlikely to account for the increased punished drinking in mothers. Moreover, females in late pregnancy, which are hypoalgesic (Gintzler, 1980), did not lick more than virgins in the punished drinking test. Following 24 hr of water deprivation, unpunished drinking was higher in lactating females than in virgins, so the increased acceptance of punishment by mothers might have been due to their being more thirsty than virgins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Administration of insulin with premeal boluses of short-acting insulin using a new injection device (Novopen) was compared with a conventional three times daily injection regimen regarding aspects of quality of life and metabolic control in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). Eighteen C-peptide-negative patients with IDDM (16 men, two women, aged 31.0 +/- 7.4 years, duration of diabetes 13.0 +/- 4.6 years; mean +/- SD) participated in the study. All patients had been treated with three daily insulin injections for at least 1 year prior to the study. The patients were randomized into two groups. Group A started a 3-month treatment period with premeal injections of short-acting insulin and intermediate-acting insulin at bedtime. This period was followed by another 3 months using the initial three times daily injection regimen. Group B completed the study in the reverse order. Quality of life was assessed by using questionnaires and personal interviews by the same clinical psychologist. Metabolic control was assessed by measuring the levels of glycosylated hemoglobin. The results show that both treatment groups experienced a general improvement in mood and well-being during the period with multiple insulin injection treatment. Furthermore, during the periods of insulin pen treatment, an increased experience of freedom and less dependence on fixed meal times were noted. Overall metabolic control, insulin dosage, body weight, and number of hypoglycemic episodes did not change during the study. It is concluded that metabolic control, safety, and number of hypoglycemic episodes using premeal doses of short-acting insulin using Novopen were not different from those seen during conventional treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The influence of interruption of the visual input on acoustic habituation was studied in cats before and following the administration of quipazine, 3 mg/kg iv. The characteristics of acoustic habituation were analyzed through the magnitude and temporal course of multiunit activity (MUA) responses elicited in the mesencephalic reticular formation (MRF) by repetitive acoustic stimuli (70 db, 50 Hz trains of 2 sec duration) in 6 freely moving cats with cortical electrodes over the parietal cortex and bipolar electrodes chronically implanted in MRF and basolateral amygdala (AMN). The cats were submitted to repetitive acoustic stimulation during one 30 min period before, and three 30 min periods after drug administration in the following conditions: a) with unmasked eyes; b) with masked eyes by means of dark contact lenses. Persistent attentive behavior, catatonic attitudes, hypersynchronous (6 Hz, 100-150 microV) EEG activity and significant increase of spontaneous MUA in FRM and AMN were induced by quipazine both in the cats tested with unmasked and with masked eyes. This increase of MUA was higher immediately following drug administration and progressively decreased, although MUA values remained significantly higher than controls 110 min after quipazine administration. Acoustic habituation, evidenced through the progressive decrease of MUA responses of MRF to acoustic stimuli, was observed before quipazine administration when the cats were tested with unmasked and with masked eyes; as well as in cats tested with unmasked eyes following drug administration. However, the MUA responses to acoustic stimuli did not decrease in cats with masked eyes during acoustic stimulation periods 0-30 min and 40-70 min after quipazine administration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Using the Beck depression inventory (BDI), we studied depression in young, healthy, male subjects who represented a wide range of body weight. Body mass index (BMI), defined as the weight (in kilograms) divided by the square of height (in meters), was used to classify subjects as obese (BMI greater than 31.1, n = 27), overweight (BMI = 27.8-31.1, n = 10) or acceptable weight (BMI less than 27.8, n = 26). BDI scores of 0-9 indicated no depression; scores of 10-15 indicated mild depression. BDI scores from 16 to 63 indicated increasing depression. No group of subjects (obese, overweight or acceptable weight subjects), had mean BDI scores suggesting depression. The mean BDI score for the obese subjects was 5.6 +/- 0.8 (mean +/- s.e.m.), which was significantly higher than the mean BDI scores for both the overweight subjects (2.5 +/- 1.1; P less than 0.04) and the acceptable weight subjects (1.5 +/- 0.3; P less than 0.001). There was a weak positive correlation of BDI with BMI (n = 63, r = 0.404, P less than 0.001). In addition, the obese subjects did form a heterogeneous group with four obese subjects (14.8 percent) having BDI score of 10 or greater. The overweight subjects had one subject (10 percent) with a BDI score of 12. None of the acceptable weight subjects had a BDI score of greater than 5. There was no correlation between waist/hip ratios and BDI scores (n = 37, r = 0.262, P = 0.118). We conclude that mild depression is present in some obese persons even when medically healthy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A new dichotic listening technique, based on a psychophysical threshold procedure and providing ordinal scale measurement of lateral asymmetry, was used to investigate variation in the size of right-ear advantage for verbal vs manual response modalities across three semantic categories of stimuli in 60 right-handed males. For manual responders, abstract words elicited a significantly greater right-ear advantage than did concrete words, while emotional words elicited a non-significant left-ear advantage. Verbal responders showed no significant difference in the size of right-ear advantage across stimuli. The results suggest that both response modality and stimulus type are important variables for dichotic listening paradigms seeking evidence of right hemisphere contributions to semantic processing.

Each year, more than 10,000 persons are admitted to Norwegian hospitals for a myocardial infarction (MI). The purpose of this study was to examine the medical, psychological, and social consequences of a MI, with special emphasis on the role of cognitive factors for the readjustment and coping process. Three hundred and eighty-three MI-patients below 67 years of age were followed by means of self- administered questionnaires during hospitalization and 1-2 weeks, 6 weeks, 6 months, and 3-5 years after the MI. In addition, a quasi- experimental evaluation of an in-hospital educational program was carried out. A high participation rate, relatively high reliability coefficients for methods developed for this study, and good correspondence with proxy information indicate satisfactory quality of data. Special attention was given to patients' cardiac health knowledge and expectations; two central aspects of perceived illness. Knowledge was represented by three scales covering basic understanding, lifestyle related aspects, and common misconceptions about coronary heart disease. Expectations were represented by four scales, pertaining to the subjective estimates of, respectively, reduced physical ability, autonomy, emotional control, and work capacity. Knowledge and expectations were only moderately correlated. Level of cardiac knowledge among the MI patients was primarily determined by socioeconomic status and amount of standardized information received during hospitalization. More negative expectations were strongly associated with hopelessness and a worse self-rated pre-MI health status. Self-assessed health was clearly reduced after the MI compared with pre-MI levels. About two-thirds of the patients were limited in their physical activities by chest pain or breathlessness. Over the 3-5 years follow-up period, about half of the surviving patients were readmitted to hospital; in more than two-thirds of the cases for heart-related reasons. Almost one third had a major recurrence, either death (17%) or a non-fatal reinfarction (14%). However, long-term use of physician consultations did not exceed that of the general population. Within 6 months, 73% of previously employed patients had returned to work with a mean sick-leave period of 15 weeks. Of previous smokers, 41% had resumed smoking 6 months after the MI whereas 49% smoked at the 3-5 years follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Since behavioural symptoms (tremor, irritability, pilo-erection and shaking) induced by imidazole (IMID) in rats suggested an underlying modification of arousal and/or emotionality, further studies were performed in order to extend the range of behavioural influences of IMID. In the open-field test, IMID (37.5-300 mg/kg IP) inhibited crossing and rearing in a dose-dependent fashion, this effect being long lasting (about 3 h at 75 mg/kg). Yohimbine (YOH) (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg IP), described as anxiogenic and fear-inducing in animals and in man, when investigated in this same test, inhibited the activity of rats similarly to IMID. Since diazepam (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) but not clonidine (0.075 and 0.150 mg/kg IP) pretreatment reversed IMID- and YOH-induced hypomotility, the hypothesis that IMID effects in the open field might reflect an anxiety-like state was investigated by means of social interaction and x-maze, two tests considered highly specific for anxiety studies. The data obtained show that IMID depresses social interactions only at doses inhibiting motor activity; YOH, in our experimental conditions, produced a similar effect. In an elevated x-maze, with alternate open and closed arms, IMID (37.5 and 75 mg/kg) decreased the proportion of open-arm entries and the time spent in them, an effect prevented by diazepam pretreatment (1 mg/kg IP). Finally, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was assessed in anesthetized rats treated with IMID and YOH at doses equivalent as regards behavioural effects. MAP was increased by IMID whether IP or IV and decreased by YOH; moreover, YOH, as expected, antagonized clonidine-induced hypotension, while IMID was ineffective.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of the beta-carboline benzodiazepine receptor ligand FG 7142 upon local cerebral glucose utilization have been examined in conscious rats using the quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic technique. FG 7142 (1-10 mg/kg i.v.) produced behavioural changes consistent with an anxiogenic action. At the largest dose of FG 7142 (10 mg/kg) 30% of the animals experienced overt convulsions. In the data analysis animals were divided according to the behavioural response elicited by the drug. In animals not expressing convulsions, FG 7142 (1-10 mg/kg) effected increases in glucose utilization in 33 of the 65 regions examined. The majority of changes were confined to limbic structures with pronounced effects occurring in the mammillary body, anterior thalamic nuclei, septal nuclei and the oriens and molecular layers of the hippocampus. Glucose use in other structures associated with auditory and visual processing, such as the medial and lateral geniculate body, and associated cortical areas, was also significantly increased. However, brain regions involved in motor control were minimally affected. The patterns of local cerebral glucose use in animals expressing FG 7142-induced convulsions were contrasted with those from an equivalent non-seizure group. Some limbic structures which were significantly affected by FG 7142 (non-seizure group) displayed a further increase in glucose utilization during convulsions. These included the mammillary body and septum. Many other limbic structures (anterior thalamic nuclei, CA fields of the hippocampus and basolateral amygdala) did not display this further rise in glucose utilization. In the cortical amygdala, lateral preoptic area of the hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens and lateral elevations in glucose utilization were restricted to those animals experiencing overt convulsions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We previously have shown that melittin evokes a sustained increase in plasma corticosterone levels of the female rat. Significant increases occurred only during the morning and the duration of the response was increased from 48 h to 8 days by a second milittin injection 3 days after initial exposure to melittin. To further evaluate the effect of melittin on adrenocortical function, rats were given melittin at 09.00 h on days 1 and 4 and on day 8 rats were subjected to a variety of different stresses. Saline-injected rats served as controls. Blood for determining non-stress and stress levels of corticosterone concentration (RIA) was collected by decapitation. In all cases morning but not afternoon non-stress plasma corticosterone levels of melittin-injected rats were higher than those of saline-injected controls; afternoon non-stress corticosterone levels did not differ between groups. Melittin- and saline-treated rats showed comparable corticosterone responses to a morning 2-min restraint stress. In contrast, melittin treatment facilitated the pituitary-adrenal response to rotational and surgical stress as well as the stress of removing one rat from a cage of two. Fifteen min after removal of the first rat of a cage of two, plasma corticosterone levels of the melittin-injected rat were significantly higher than those of saline-injected rats. Likewise, plasma corticosterone levels of melittin-treated rats were higher (P less than 0.05) than those of saline-injected rats 15 min after rotational (10 rpm) and surgical (jugular cutdown and blood withdrawal) stress.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Little is known about the emotional demands upon women of the step-by-step procedures characteristic of involvement in an in vitro fertilization/embryo transfer (IVF-ET) program. In this study, 77 women provided their perceptions of the emotional demands of IVF-ET and explanations for failed attempts, as well as describing their coping strategies and sources of emotional support. Nominated as the two most difficult stages of IVF were the wait for a possible pregnancy after the procedure and the blood tests and injections prior to hospitalization. Women were overly optimistic with a first attempt, with 70% being moderately to highly optimistic about success. Levels of optimism, however, generally declined across attempts. About half of the women intended to stop after four attempts, and almost all would stop after six treatment cycles. Women attributed their lack of success to a wide range of factors, including the low success rate, being anxious or stressed, bad luck, or problems associated with their condition and the procedure. Asked how they coped with the program, the women reported that the major strategy was to adopt the attitude that they might be successful in the long term. Other coping strategies involved keeping busy, staying calm, and seeking the support of other IVF women and husbands. Husbands were listed as the major source of emotional support, followed by other infertile women and nurses, counselors, and doctors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Ninety ASA I-II patients scheduled for a pre-planned surgical operation were randomly assigned to three groups: the first of these received no premedication, the second received 1-2 ml Thalamonal i.m., and the third were offered music from a walkman via earphones. Excluded from the study were patients under 15 and over 65 years of age, patients suffering from malignant diseases, those expecting operations of uncertain outcome, and patients whose mother tongue was not German. All 90 patients were cared for by the same investigator. She obtained informed consent on the eve of the scheduled operation and chose the music that was to be offered preceding the operation according to the patient's wishes. Each patient's history was evaluated, including the grade of anxiety and his or her attitude towards music. Of course, a physical examination was also conducted. Ninety minutes prior to the operation, psychometric tests (STAI-G-X2, STAI-G-X1, ESA-S, and BF-S) were performed. Thereafter, either music was offered or else 1-2 ml Thalamonal was injected, according to the random assignment: group 1 received neither. Fifteen minutes before entering the operating room, the tests expressing anxiety with regard to the situation were repeated as was the physical examination, and the investigator once again assessed the level of anxiety of the patients. On the evening of the day of surgery, all patients were asked to give an evaluation of the preoperative period. Trait-anxiety, as measured by the STAI-G-X2-Test, was comparable in all groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This paper has a dual purpose. On the one hand, congratulations are in order; the 25th Hanford Life Sciences Symposium celebrates four decades of important research at Hanford. This research has helped provide a better understanding of ionizing radiation effects on man and his environment. Researchers at Hanford and those at other locations can take pride in the fact that today we know more about the major characteristics and potential health effects of ionizing radiation than we do for any other biological hazard. Ionizing radiation's present mysteries, important as they are, involve subtleties that are difficult to explore in detail because the effects are so small relative to other health effects. It will also be a pleasure to add our tribute, along with many others, to Herb Parker, a friend, colleague, and pioneer in the radiation protection field. Building on the work of early pioneers such as Herb and those who have and will follow in their footsteps, we will develop an even broader understanding--an understanding that will clarify the effects of low-level radiation exposure, an area of knowledge about which sound explanations and predictions elude us today. The second purpose of this paper is to remind those in the radiation protection field that they have been less than successful in one of their most important tasks--that of effective communication. The task is not an easy one because the content of the message depends upon the dose. At high doses, above 1 Sv, where the deleterious effects of radiation are predictable, there is agreement on the message that must be delivered to the public: avoid it. There is no confusion in the public sector about this message. At the much lower doses resulting from beneficial activities, the message we must convey to the public is different. Unfortunately, the only message about radiation that the public seems to remember is "avoid it." We know the proper message is not being received when the medical profession resorts to using the term "magnetic resonance" in place of "nuclear magnetic resonance" because of public fear of the word "nuclear." We know there's a problem when the public cringes because of a lead story in the press detailing an incident where people were exposed to a few microgray and when the linear hypothesis is used to predict hundreds of thousands of cancers from Chernobyl-related doses well below 0.01 Sv.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Epilepsy differs from other chronic conditions because of the unpredictability of the seizures, the absence of an absolute diagnostic test other than video-telemetry and the stigma associated with the condition. Working from a hospital base with a biased population, one might be forgiven for thinking that most people with epilepsy have major problems either of seizure control or socially. This is naturally not the case, but the social problems of epilepsy are sufficiently frequent and/or severe to warrant comment. Simply making the diagnosis may produce parental anxiety and guilt. This is often compounded by societal misunderstanding of epilepsy and the incorrect association with mental illness. Furthermore, it is those children or adults who have severe epilepsy who stand out in society, with the tacit implication that all epileptics (people with epilepsy) are like them. There is a societal generalization that all epileptics are the same. It is not appreciated that there are many types of epilepsy (convulsive and non-convulsive) and that epilepsy varies from being very mild to intractable. Treatment also has implications: children and adolescents may not like to take, or be seen to be taking, medication. It is desirable where possible to recommend twice daily dosage with breakfast and dinner. This avoids the need to take medication to school, or in the case of adolescents, to work. In addition, compliance is enhanced with a twice daily dosage. There is without doubt a stigma associated with epilepsy which persists despite being to a less degree than in the past.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Ro 15-1788, a selective benzodiazepine (BZD) antagonist, is known to precipitate withdrawal reactions in BZD-pretreated animals. We examined whether a high dose of Ro 15-1788 can precipitate withdrawal reactions relating to behavior and changes in the stress-hormone plasma levels after acute BZD treatment in man. On two consecutive days, 15 min and 24 h respectively after a single treatment with either lormetazepam (0.06 mg/kg: LMZ group), flunitrazepam (0.03 mg/kg: FNZ group) or placebo (PLA group), 18 healthy volunteers received two injections of Ro 15-1788 (0.01 mg/kg). Behavioral responses (mood changes, anxiety), cortisol and prolactin plasma levels, and physiological parameters were examined. In all groups there were only slight changes in the circulation parameters. Minor anxiety reactions were seen after Ro 15-1788, which occurred the 1st day in the PLA group and the 2nd day in the BZD groups. Depression was noted especially in the FNZ group after both injections of Ro 15-1788. The physiological morning decrease in cortisol plasma level was influenced on the 1st day in the LMZ group (2 volunteers showed high plasma levels) and the 2nd day in the FNZ group: a slight increase of cortisol plasma level was measured after the 2nd injection of Ro 15-1788. Prolactin plasma levels arose immediately after LMZ injection and continued to increase after Ro 15-1788 injection. No increase in prolactin plasma levels was found in the other groups or in the LMZ group after the 2nd challenge by Ro 15-1788.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Platelet serotonin content was measured by high pressure liquid chromatography in 56 peri- and postmenopausal women, in order to study variations of this parameter with hormonal status and depressive mood symptoms. Clinical symptoms were assessed by a self-report depression symptom scale (CES-D of NIMH). Thirty-eight women with a score of 16 or more were considered as presenting depressive symptoms (mean score +/- SD = 28.8 +/- 10.5), while the others formed the control group (n = 18, score = 4.4 +/- 4.2). Platelet serotonin contents were significantly lower in the 'depressed' group (0.302 +/- 0.010 vs. 0.366 +/- 0.020 nmol 10(-8) platelets, means + SEM, P less than 0.001 by Mann-Whitney U-test). In 'depressed' women who had been treated for one or more depressive episodes, platelet 5-HT contents (0.283 +/- 0.023, n = 18, P less than 0.01) were significantly lower with respect to controls. In patients without previous episodes of depression, serotonin expressed in nmol 10(-8) platelets did not differ significantly from controls but serotonin expressed in nmol ml-1 of blood was slightly lower than control values (0.890 +/- 0.085, n = 20 vs. 1.088 +/- 0.090 nmol ml-1, n = 18, P less than 0.02). Platelet serotonin content was positively correlated to plasma oestrone and oestradiol concentrations among the control group but not in the 'depressed' group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Recent experimental studies in pain control have questioned the value of pleasant affect in strategies employing distraction. It appears that pleasant affect may have been systematically confounded with task complexity or novelty in past research that found pleasant imagery or slides effective in increasing pain tolerance with the cold pressor test. The present study was a follow-up to a study conducted by this author (Greenstein, 1984) in which unpleasant slides had significantly increased pain tolerance above pleasant slide level. In the present study, 69 college students (35 females, 34 males) rated either the pleasant or unpleasant slides used in the original study on their perceived pleasantness, complexity, and uniqueness (novelty). Results indicated that the unpleasant slides were rated significantly more complex (P less than 0.001) and unique (P less than 0.001) than the pleasant slides. Additionally, as in the earlier study, ratings of the unpleasant slides on pleasantness deviated significantly farther from neutrality than did ratings of the pleasant slides (t = 5.04, P less than 0.001). Thus the unpleasant slides were also perceived as being more significant (i.e., pertinent) than were the pleasant slides. The results indicate that affect was confounded with other stimulus characteristics in the Greenstein (1984) pain control study and probably in a significant number of other studies as well. Researchers are cautioned to control for the stimulus characteristics of visual distraction strategies used in pain control studies. The assumption that pleasantness, per se, contributes to strategy effectiveness is no longer tenable; future research must demonstrate an independent effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In the years 1960-1985 psychiatric and psychological research was conducted among a group of 80 Polish alpinists. Experimental research was conducted during the expeditions to the Hindu Kush mountains and to the Andes (1971, 1973-74, 1979, 1985). The aim of the research was to describe the personality of the alpinists, their motivation, as well as mental disturbances caused by staying at high altitudes. On the basis of an interview and the Cattell personality questionnaire, two types of personality were distinguished: the schizoid-psychasthenic type (53 persons, i.e. 66%) and the asthenic-neurotic type (23 persons, i.e. 30%). As regards the motivation for mountain climbing, situational and personality factors were described, among them, the need to experience "powerful situations" and compensating for an inferiority complex. A so called integrational fear which mobilizes the psychophysical capabilities to overcome the hardships of the climb, was described as characteristic of the alpinists. Depending on the altitude and the duration of one's stay at it, the mental disturbances, in most cases took on the form of the neurasthenic syndrome (asthenic or sthenic) at low altitudes (3000-4000 m), the cyclothymic syndrome at medium altitudes (4000-5000 m), and the acute organic brain syndrome at high altitudes (above 7000 m). In 24 (35%) cases, there occurred psychotic disturbances with profound disturbances of consciousness and orientation. These states were accompanied by symptoms of high-altitude deterioration with a break-down in the physical condition, disturbances in the hydro-electrolyte equilibrium, and a considerable loss of bodily weight.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Traits and states are concepts that people use to both describe and understand themselves and others. We show that people view these concepts as prototype-based categories that have a graded internal structure and fuzzy boundaries and identify a set of attributes that define the prototypical cores of two categories: traits and states. Prototypical traits are stable, long-lasting, and internally caused. Prototypical states are temporary, brief, and caused by external circumstances. These prototypes are not defined by averages, as the family-resemblance principle would suggest, but by ideal (or extreme) attribute values. Like other ideal-based categories, traits and states serve particular goals. Trait concepts permit people to predict the present from the past; state concepts identify those behaviors that can be controlled by manipulating the situation. These two complementary schemas are part of the extensive theory of psychological causality that is implicit in language. Abstract social concepts differ from object categories in their category standards, the nature of their attributes, and the interrelations among those attributes.

Alpidem is a new imidazopyridine compound which has been selected in animal pharmacology for its anxiolytic and anticonvulsant activity, and for its high therapeutic index. In healthy volunteers, alpidem was well tolerated up to doses of 300 mg and appeared to be devoid of CNS toxic effects. An extensive clinical development plan has been carried out in Europe to test its efficacy and safety in anxious patients. In a series of 5 double-blind placebo controlled parallel group studies, alpidem was administered as a single dose in a situation of stress induced anxiety where the stress was represented by diagnostic investigations such as gastroscopy, cardiac catheterisation or minor surgical operations. In these studies, 188 patients received placebo and 188 received alpidem; their anxiety was assessed before and after the drug administration by means of visual analogue scales and state anxiety inventories. Alpidem at 50 and 75 mg was significantly better than placebo in reducing stress induced anxiety. Alpidem was then administered to patients suffering from severe generalized anxiety in doses from 50 to 150 mg/day for 3-4 weeks in 3 double-blind placebo controlled studies: 127 patients received alpidem and 80 received placebo. Patients were assessed by means of rating scales and visual analogue scales. Alpidem did show an anxiolytic activity in this patient population and was well tolerated especially with regard to CNS side-effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Regional cerebral glucose utilization (rCMRglu) was studied in rats with and without previous aversive conditioning. Four groups of rats were studied. Two groups of rats were aversely conditioned by placing them in a shock chamber (conditioned stimulus) where they received random footshocks. The two remaining groups were placed in the shock chamber but not conditioned. Regional CMRglu and systemic parameters (heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), blood gases and pH, plasma catecholamines, and plasma glucose) were measured in unconditioned and conditioned rats in the presence and in the absence of the conditioned stimulus. The changes in rCMRglu described below appeared to be global and not limited to specific regions. Results are as follows: (1) transferring unconditioned rats to the shock chamber had no significant effect on rCMRglu even though the systemic parameters indicated a stress response. It appears that stress capable of inducing changes in heart rate, MABP, and plasma catecholamines is not necessarily accompanied by increases in cerebral glucose utilization. (2) Conditioned rats not exposed to the shock chamber at the time rCMRglu was measured had decreased rates of rCMRglu compared to rats that were not conditioned. Except for plasma epinephrine, which increased after conditioning, systemic parameters were not affected. (3) Conditioned fear, elicited by transferring conditioned rats to the shock chamber, increased rCMRglu when compared to a control group that was conditioned to footshock using the same paradigm but not exposed to the shock chamber at the time rCMRglu was measured. The systemic parameters indicated a stress response in conditioned rats transferred to the shock chamber.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To clarify the epidemiology of adolescent suicide, a retrospective study was undertaken of suicides (1978 to 1982) and hospitalized suicide attempts (1979 to 1983) by adolescents aged 10 to 19 years in an affluent suburban area. Data included date of injury, demography (for both suicides and suicide attempts), and recorded personal and social history (available for attempts only). There were 11 deaths due to suicide (definite or possible) in the five years reviewed: seven male, 10 aged 15 to 19 years. The mean annual rate for suicide deaths (definite and possible, based on ICD codes) was 10.3 per 100,000 15 to 19 year olds, with male rates exceeding female rates. Male rates were lower in the study area than in Chicago, Illinois or the United States, but female rates were higher. Suicides represented an unusually high proportion of all adolescent deaths. Atypically, there were no firearm suicide deaths. Two hundred ten suicide attempts were studied: 77% aged 15 to 19 years, 70% female, and 82% white; 83% involved ingestion of medications or poisons. The mean annual suicide attempt rate was approximately 140 per 100,000 for 15 to 19 year olds, and 45 per 100,000 for 10 to 14 year olds, with female rates exceeding male rates. There was an association between suicide attempt dates and occurrence of holidays, and there was a peak in attempts at the end of the school year. Detailed analysis of personal and social attributes associated with suicide attempts was prevented by poor recording of relevant factors in the medical record.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The preschool years are a remarkable period of dramatic growth in the areas of physical, affective, and cognitive development. Physical development is characterized by a slow but steady rate of somatic growth and the mastery of motor skills that facilitate the child's achievement of autonomy and independence. Major themes in affective development include the achievement of autonomy and independence from family, a lessening of attachment to parents and the alleviation of separation anxiety, and the acquisition of impulse control and socialization skills. Cognitive development during the so-called preoperational period is best characterized by the mastery of language. The remarkable developmental gains achieved during this dynamic period culminate in a child who can function independently and competently and begin the major occupation of childhood--attending school. Health maintenance issues during the preschool years directly reflect the child's developmental stage. For example, nutritional issues reflect not only physical growth and motor skills, but also negativism and the child's struggle to achieve autonomy. Similarly, safety and injury prevention related to the "motor-minded" behavior so characteristic of children at this age, as well as the illogical, egocentric thought that predominates during this period of cognitive development. Examples of other stage-related issues addressed during health maintenance visits include discipline and behavior problems, sleep problems and night awakening, and toilet training. The unique aspects of development during the preschool years also have implications for other components of child health maintenance, including developmental screening, procedures and immunizations, and physical assessment. A number of clinical issues are of special significance during the preschool years. For example, the most common causes of children's short stature, constitutional delay in growth and familial short stature, may result in major parental concerns at this time. Recurrent otitis media is an important problem during this period of language acquisition. Among preschool children with urinary tract infections, the risk of an underlying structural anomaly of the urinary tract and the danger of irreversible renal damage is greater than for older children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

We prospectively examined perceptions of the doctor-patient relationship among interns in two different internal medicine training programs five times during the internship year. All 59 interns in the University of California, Irvine-Long Beach and the Oregon Health Sciences University Medical Programs participated in the study during the 1982-83 internship year. We serially administered a questionnaire that contained four major items: (1) a choice of one of six empirically developed role paradigms of the doctor-patient relationship; (2) a checklist of positive and negative aspects of internship; (3) a measure of level of satisfaction with the decision to become a physician; and (4) a rating list of mood descriptors. The six role paradigms portrayed a variety of positive and negative aspects of the doctor-patient relationship. At the beginning of the year, the interns were quite positive about the doctor-patient relationship and preferentially endorsed collegial models. As the year progressed, they endorsed significantly fewer positive and more negative models (P less than 0.001). Most respondents endorsed two models, one positive: "expert resource (doctor)--active cooperative participant (patient)" and one negative: "clerk, paperwork processor (doctor)--subscriber, seeker of eligibility (patient)." By the end of the year approximately half of the interns endorsed a positive and half a negative model. Interns selecting a negative model of the doctor-patient relationship identified more negative and fewer positive aspects of internship than those selecting a positive model. Specifically, they significantly more often (P less than 0.001) identified too much paper work and coping with difficult patients as negative aspects of internship.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of this study was to examine whether the life experiences described by postural, situational, and emotional changes during the day have similar effects on the blood pressure of men and women. The subjects of the study were 137 men and 67 women from the clinical population of the Hypertension Center at The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. There were 3023 individual pressure measurements available for study, 2072 from the men, and 951 from the women, which were taken using noninvasive ambulatory blood pressure monitoring techniques. Pressures were transformed to z-scores using the subject's daily mean pressure and standard deviation to assess the relative elevation during the various effects. Separate but identical ANOVA models were run for each sex. The results show that there were differences between men and women in the parameters associated with the level of systolic and diastolic pressure. Men's systolic pressure varied by situation of measurement (P less than 0.0001) and emotional state (P less than 0.0001), while that of women varied by posture (P less than 0.0005) and situation of measurement (P less than 0.0001). The diastolic pressure of men varied by emotional state as did that of women, except that men's diastolic pressure tended to be highest during reported anger while that of women tended to be highest during reported anxiety. Differences in occupation or environment, hormones, or in behavioral patterns related to the socialization process may all contribute to the differences between the sexes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The binding of imipramine (IMI) to platelet membranes was investigated in 13 patients suffering from panic attacks (PA), in 5 patients affected by schizophrenic disorder (S), and in 11 healthy volunteers (V). From 6 volunteers, from 5 patients with panic attacks, and from all the schizophrenic patients, blood samples were collected in the spring, whereas from the others the samples were collected in the autumn. IMI binding was studied according to a protocol provided by the WHO. Binding parameters, the maximum binding capacity (Bmax), and the dissociation constant (Kd) were measured after construction of the Scatchard plot. The differences between V and PA and between V and S were tested by analysis of variance followed by a t-test. Overall and intragroup relationships between Bmax or Kd and diagnosis and season were assessed by a 2-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). Bmax (mean +/- SD) was 947 +/- 269 (V), 742 +/- 160 (PA), and 712 +/- 254 (S) fmol/mg protein. V was different from PA (P less than 0.04) and from S (P less than 0.01). Kd (mean +/- SD) was 1.41 +/- 0.6 (V), 1.15 +/- 0.6 (PA), and 0.79 +/- 0.20 (S) nM. V was different from S only (P less than 0.01). Our results show that panic attacks and schizophrenia decrease the binding capacity of IMI in platelets. In addition, we found a significant difference between patients and controls only for the samples taken in the spring. No statistically significant difference was detectable between the 2 groups in the autumn samples.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Intraocular surgery is performed under local or general anesthesia. The indications for these procedures are often dependent on local circumstances. On the one hand, the optimal conditions for operations under general anesthesia, on the other, the negligible stress of local anesthesia, especially for the elderly, are emphasized. To clarify this question, perioperative anxiety behavior and postoperative pain were investigated in geriatric patients undergoing ophthalmic surgery. Spielberger's state trait anxiety inventory (STAI) was performed in 31 patients operated on in general (age 71.0 +/- 6.6 SEM) and 31 operated on in local anesthesia (age 71.6 +/- 6.0 SEM) the day before and 4 h after operation. 10 patients in each group were also tested immediately before surgery in the operating room. Postoperative pain was estimated by the patient and postoperative sedation by the investigator using a 4-point scale for each over 8 h. The state (STAI 1) and trait (STAI 2) anxiety scores did not change in these geriatric patients. There were no significant differences between the groups. Postoperative pain was significantly (p less than 0.05) higher after 15 and 60 min after general anesthesia. There was no difference in the frequency of analgetic therapy in both groups, but most opioids were given in the first 90 min after general anesthesia. The patients were more frequently sedated (p less than 0.05) in the first 90 min after general anesthesia then after local anesthesia. The scores of state and trait anxiety behavior are comparable to a normal geriatric population, even if normal data cannot always be applied to clinical situations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

l-Fenfluramine (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg) significantly reduced the success of dominant rats competing with untreated middle rank rats for chocolate. In resident rats, l-fenfluramine (2.5 mg/kg) significantly increased the number of submissions, and the time spent submitting, to untreated rats intruding into their home-cage territory; it also significantly reduced the number of kicks directed at, and the time spent kicking, the intruder; and the incidence of, and time spent in, aggressively grooming the intruder. When the intruder rats were treated with l-fenfluramine the only significantly change was a decrease in the number of wrestling bouts and the time spent wrestling. Since l-fenfluramine did not change other behaviours in this test (e.g. sniffing the opponent) the decrease in dominance behaviours was probably not secondary to nonspecific sedation. In the social interaction test of anxiety, l-fenfluramine (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) significantly reduced the time spent in active social interaction, and decreased motor activity. Analyses of covariance indicated that these were two independent effects. In the elevated plus-maze, l-fenfluramine (1.25-5 mg/kg) significantly decreased the percent number of entries made onto open arms, and (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) significantly decreased the percent of times spent on the open arms. The total number of arm entries was reduced by all doses (0.625-5 mg/kg). Analysis of covariance indicated that the decrease in percent of time spent on the open arms was secondary to the drop in overall activity. Thus there was no evidence of anxiolytic action in either of these tests, the changes indicating, if anything, anxiogenic effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

It is well known that the human voice contains important information about the affective state of a speaker at a nonverbal level. Accordingly, we started an extensive investigation which aims at modelling intraindividual changes of the global affective state over time, as this state is reflected by the human voice, and can be inferred from measurable speech parameters. For the purpose of this investigation, a speech-recording procedure was designed which is especially suited to reveal intraindividual changes of voice patterns over time since each person serves as his or her own reference. On the other hand, the chosen experimental setup is less suited to classify patients in the sense of a traditional diagnostic scheme. In order to find an appropriate mathematical model on the basis of speech parameters, a calibration study with 190 healthy subjects was carried out which enabled us to investigate each parameter for its reproducibility, sensitivity and specificity. In particular, this calibration study yielded the information of how to draw the line between 'normal' fluctuations and 'significant' intraindividual changes over time. All speech parameters under discussion turned out to be sufficiently stable over time, whereas, in regard to their sensitivity to form and content of text, significant differences showed up. In a second step, a pilot study with 6 depressive patients was carried out in order to investigate the specificity of voice parameters with regard to psychopathology. It turned out that the registration procedure is realizable even if patients are considerably handicapped by their illness. However, no consistent correlations could be revealed between single speech parameters and psychopathological rating scales.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In a longitudinal study of recovery after surgery for breast cancer, subjects reported the frequency of, and their satisfaction with, various supportive behaviours on the part of family members, close friends and medical professionals. The reliability of the Multi-Dimensional Support Scale (MDSS) devised for this purpose is described. Measures of psychological, social and physical adjustment approached normality by 3 months post-operation. Frequency of support from all sources decreased as time from surgery passed, whilst satisfaction with support varied with the type of support given and the source from which it was received. Quite different patterns emerged in support needs from professional and non-professional sources, with empathic support being required from all sources, whilst informational support was desired from surgeons, rather than from family and friends. Further, subjects were more discriminating in the amounts of support required from family and friends, such that it was more likely for these sources to give unwanted support than it was for professional sources, from whom many subjects reported inadequate support. Satisfaction with social support was matched with measures of adjustment, and it was found that those satisfied with support from family members were significantly less anxious and depressed in hospital than were those who were not satisfied with support from this source. However, at 1 month post-operation, anxiety and depression levels were significantly related to satisfaction with support from surgeons; and at 3 months post-operation, anxiety and depression measures were significantly related to satisfaction with support from both family members and surgeons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There are three distinct types of inhalant users: young inhalant users, adolescent polydrug users, and inhalant-dependent adults. Young inhalant users have a modal age of 12 to 13. They use inhalants and may also use alcohol and marijuana. They are likely to have more emotional problems than nondrug users or young marijuana users. These problems, particularly when they involve feelings of anger and alienation, increase the chances that they will identify with other youth who have similar feelings. When this happens, young people form peer clusters; they find a best friend or form a small gang that has a high potential for getting involved with drugs. Most of these peer clusters use inhalants only a few times a month, although some may become obsessed with inhalant use to the exclusion of nearly all other activities. The data showing that young inhalant users have more emotional problems than either nondrug users or young marijuana users suggest that treatment should involve therapy as well as drug avoidance approaches. Every youth caught using inhalants, however, should not automatically be sent for therapy. Sometimes a youth caught using a drug is not really drug involved and overreaction can be damaging. In addition, the emotional problems of all young inhalant users are not identical. A higher average level of emotional problems only means that some of the young inhalant users have those problems, not all of them. Older adolescents, including those who used inhalants earlier, are not likely to use inhalants. Since young inhalant users seem to be troubled youth, have shown an early penchant for drug use, and have drug-using associates, it seem unlikely that they quit using drugs. They probably move on to other drugs, leaving inhalants behind. The older adolescents who do use inhalants are adolescent polydrug users, with a modal age of around 15 to 16. They take many different drugs, and some of them use inhalants as well. The adolescents who use inhalants are probably using a wider range of drugs than other adolescents and are probably getting high more often. Furthermore, they are likely to be more deviant and may be involved in more aggression and more crime. Inhalant-dependent adults usually have a long history of alcohol and other drug involvement. At some point, inhalants have become their preferred drug. By that time, they are usually in their midtwenties to early thirties. They have serious problems.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This 6-week, double-blind, randomised parallel group study was carried out to assess the efficacy and tolerability of 150 mg trazodone nocte and 30-60 mg mianserin nocte in the treatment of depression in general practice. Special emphasis was placed on the effect of treatment on psychomotor performance and sleep. A total of 39 suitable depressed patients were recruited into the study by one general practitioner. Nineteen of these were randomised to receive trazodone and 20 to receive 30 mg mianserin for the first 7 days and 60 mg for the remaining 5 weeks. Efficacy of the two therapies was assessed using the modified Hamilton depression rating scale scores and by the Investigator's judgement of both the global severity and improvement of the condition. For HAM-D scores no significant treatment differences were seen overall. There was, however, evidence that the trends in the scores over the 6-week trial period were different for the two therapies and that the scores changed significantly over this time. For current global severity and global improvement scores, there were no significant differences between treatments. The severity and improvement scores were found to change significantly over the 6 weeks of therapy in both of the two treatment groups. Psychomotor performance was assessed using the critical flicker fusion threshold test, the digit symbol substitution test and the choice reaction task.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This was a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, parallel-group study which was performed to assess the tolerance and efficacy of administration of 150 mg trazodone nocte as an initial and maintenance therapy compared with a 50 mg t.d.s. regimen. Particular attention was paid to the incidence of adverse events and to the effect of treatment on sleep over the 6-week period of the study. A total of 182 eligible, depressed patients were recruited into the study by a panel of 24 general practitioners. Eighty-seven patients were randomised to receive 50 mg trazodone three times a day and 95 to receive 150 mg trazodone as a single evening dose. Efficacy of the two treatment regimens was assessed using the modified Hamilton depression rating scale scores and by the Investigator's judgement of both the global severity and improvement of depression. The mean HAM-D scores of the two treatment groups were found not to be significantly different. There was strong evidence that the scores decreased over the 6-week trial period and that the rate of this decrease was different for the two study groups. For measures of both current global severity and improvement, no significant treatment differences were revealed. The changes in Hamilton scores occurring during the study period were found to be equal in the two treatment groups. Using a total side effects score to assess the incidence and severity of adverse events, the two dosing regimens were found not to be significantly different.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This 6-week, double-blind, randomised, multicentre study was performed to assess the efficacy and tolerability of evening administration of 150 mg trazodone as an initial and maintenance therapy and to compare this regimen with recommended dosages of mianserin, dothiepin and amitriptyline in the treatment of depressed, adult, general practice patients. A total of 227 eligible depressed patients were recruited into the study by a panel of general practitioners. One hundred and twelve patients were randomised to receive trazodone therapy, 36 received mianserin, 35 received dothiepin and 44 received amitriptyline. Trazodone was administered as a single daily dose of 150 mg. Mianserin was given at a dose of 30 mg for the first 7 days followed by 60 mg daily for the remaining 5 weeks. Dothiepin and amitriptyline were both given at a dosage of 75 mg daily for the 1st week; this was then increased to 150 mg and 100 mg, respectively, for the final 5 weeks of the study. Efficacy of the four treatments was assessed using the modified Hamilton depression rating scale scores and by the Investigator's judgment of both the global severity and improvement of the condition. No significant differences were shown, using any measure of efficacy, between trazodone and any of the three comparator drugs. All treatments resulted in significant improvement in both Ham-D scores and global measures over the period of the study. Using a total side-effect score to assess the incidence and severity of adverse events and adjusting for baseline differences, the four treatments were found to differ.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In this chapter I have attempted to introduce a model of personality development that emphasizes the important contribution of emotional experiences, specifically differential emotional experiences. I have suggested that in the course of development children acquire affect-specific emotional organizations that then influence the way they subsequently engage the world. The attachment literature has led in establishing that early, formative social interactions with caregivers affect, in consequential ways, the nature of the subsequent parent-child bond and the child's social competence and cognitive skills. The discrete-emotions analysis undertaken here suggests it may be informative to learn more about the specific types of emotional exchanges that go on between infants and their caregivers. From this we may be able to understand more about differential personality development. In this chapter I also attempted to establish the case for the existence of emotional biases in adults and to show that these emotional biases appear to have rudimentary counterparts in infants and young children. I suggested that differential emotional biases are acquired developmentally in the context of differential social ecologies that elicit and emphasize certain emotions over others. Several mechanisms were proposed to account for the consolidation of emotional biases over time, including social learning principles, contagion and self-regulation, language, and the formation of cognitively mediated emotion loops. Once these kinds of ideoaffective organizations (Tomkins, 1963) or affective-cognitive structures (Izard, 1977) that are embodied in emotional organizations have taken shape, they tend to be self-sustaining without further "emotion socialization" from caregivers and other family members, although the wider social environment may continue to reinforce emotional biases, as is evident in the Dodge et al. (1986) study. Does this mean that emotional organizations established early in life will resist subsequent change? I suggest that cognition and feeling experience are capable of contributing to either further consolidation of emotional organizations and their dominance in personality and behavior or the forging of a new developmental path. Although emotion and cognition tend to sustain one another within emotion organizations, experience teaches that one can discover one's own "modes of states of mind" and deploy this information in the service of enlightened self-management (although there may be limitations on this ability, especially if the organization is of the more inflexible form found in psychopathology [Malatesta & Wilson, 1988]).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

There is little information on the psychologic aspects of HED. In particular, there is insufficient evidence to support or dispute the claim that the intelligence of persons with HED is dissimilar to that of the general population. Impressions of frequent mental retardation may arise from patients suffering brain damage following high fever and from our biases against the physically unattractive. A small number of adults with HED have been reported to hold a relatively wide range of jobs, and an even smaller number have been reported with educational and occupational achievement that is predictive of bright average to superior intellectual functioning, but even less evidence is available here. Chronic illness and handicaps exert a toll on the patient and the family. There appears to be greater maladjustment among the families of chronically ill children, but this differs according to the type of illness, and we do not know how this affects the HED child and his/her family. Still, the HED family is exposed to some unique stresses: having always to take into account the ambient temperature regardless of their planned activity; responding to cruel stares and remarks when out in public; and dealing with the problem of broken, lost, or merely publicly discovered dentures. On the other hand, some children apparently benefit from having a sib with a disability. Families react in a variety of ways to a disability, and their reaction may interact with the child's temperament to affect emotional development for better or worse. However, the existence of HED does not insure either normal or inadequate emotional adjustment, and parents should be advised of this. As difficult as it may be, this may also be the time for the pediatrician to say "I don't know." Parents can be told that each child, not just those with HED, should be provided a warm and supportive environment congruent with his/her unique style, in order to facilitate emotional development. They should also be advised of the probable emotional benefits of early prosthetic care with wigs and dentures. When this is either not possible or not sufficient, professional guidance should be sought. Psychotherapy or counseling can be obtained for the child, a parent, or for the entire family. While some familiarity with HED may be helpful, it is not essential, and is far less important than finding a competent professional with whom the family is comfortable. As far as obtaining the information we need, a series of systematic investigations appears to be called for.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Future offenders have more ratings than controls on variables indicating psychopathology. The characteristics which most consistently and significantly discriminate between preoffenders and controls, and which also turned out to be the best predictors of future criminality, are those which previously have been observed in subjects with serious mental disorders. The results indicate that the high degree of psychopathology in subsequent offenders is associated with distortion of body image and with poor reality orientation, i.e. that the most prominent characteristics of future offenders are related to a weakness of the ego. Future offenders seem to have a sufficiently developed ego to handle common tasks. However, their ego fails when they are confronted with unfamiliar and frustrating situations. The inability of subsequent offenders to complete a task properly, with failure on difficult and provocative tasks, shows that they have not developed adequate defence mechanisms and that they have a low tolerance for frustration. They are emotionally immature, instable and impulsive. In short, they are dominated by id impulses. There is no indication of gender confusion (homosexuality) in subsequent offenders. However, there are marked differences between the drawings by cases and by controls regarding characteristics related to sexuality. These findings are interpreted as an exaggeration of masculinity and an abnormal preoccupation with sexuality combined with anxiety for the opposite sex. It is possible that severe criminality, contrary to milder forms of lawbreaking, is associated with elevated self-esteem and extroversion. There are indications that ultimate offenders experience human beings (others or themselves) as deviant, monstrous and inhuman, features which indicate that distorted self-concept and distorted self-perception are characteristics of preoffenders. The findings regarding aggression are inconsistent, just as they were in prior projects. The Draw-A-Person Test (DAP) and Colour Slide Test (CST) findings indicate that preoffenders are more aggressive and destructive than controls, whereas the Hand Test (HT) shows neither more aggression nor more acting-out tendencies in future offenders than in controls. The literature offers conflicting findings regarding depression. The CST results indicate that depression is more common in preoffenders than in controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Dependence on benzodiazepines following continued use is by now a well-documented clinical phenomenon. Benzodiazepines differ in their dependence potential. The present studies were aimed at examining the possibility that differential rates of tolerance development might account for differences in dependence risk. Four studies are reported. The first three studies concerned normal subjects. The development of tolerance over a fifteen day period was demonstrated for three different benzodiazepines (ketazolam, lorazepam and triazolam) using two paradigms. Tolerance in terms of a reduction in effectiveness of a repeated given dose was most notable for the benzodiazepine with a medium elimination half-life (lorazepam) for physiological, behavioural and subjective measures. In the case of the drug with the longest elimination half-life (ketazolam) reduction in effectiveness could only be assumed to be occurring if account was taken of the steady increase in plasma concentrations of active metabolites. For this drug it seemed that the physiological measures were those most likely to demonstrate the development of tolerance. Although triazolam showed few significant drug effects on this paradigm (testing being 12 hours after ingestion of this short half-life benzodiazepine), tolerance was seen to develop on some subjective measures. Using an alternative method of testing tolerance, assessing responses to a diazepam challenge dose, a high degree of tolerance on two-thirds of the measures was observed in subjects when pretreated with the benzodiazepine with the most marked accumulation of active metabolites (ketazolam). The other two drugs also led to tolerance development on a range of measures; this was more marked for lorazepam than triazolam. Blunting of the growth hormone response to diazepam was the most sensitive and reliable method of detecting tolerance to the benzodiazepines. Symptoms on discontinuation of the two weeks' intake of the benzodiazepines were marked for all the drugs but unrelated to either the tolerance induced or the elimination half-life of the particular drug. A further clinical study revealed that tolerance persisted in a group of long-term benzodiazepine users for between four months and two years following complete abstinence from the drug. These patients appeared to be less affected by diazepam in terms of its commonly observed subjective effects, regardless of their original medication. These ex-long-term users of benzodiazepines were, however, more likely to manifest two specific types of effects--immediate 'symptom' reduction and exacerbation of 'withdrawal symptoms' over the subsequent week.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is due to a heterogeneous group of conditions that may affect the mitral valve or the mitral valve apparatus. Although MVP may progress later in life to frank mitral insufficiency requiring mitral valve repair or may predispose to bacterial endocarditis, in most cases it is a benign, idiopathic condition without serious consequences. However, many investigators have documented that MVP is often associated with a constellation of signs and symptoms, which appear to constitute a distinct syndrome. These associated findings include autonomic dysfunction, frequent complaints of chest pain, palpitations, orthostasis, fatigue, dyspnea on exertion and anxiety. Although the risk of significant myocardial dysfunction or bacterial endocarditis appears to be related to patient sex, age and the severity of valvular prolapse and insufficiency, there appears to be little or no relations between the extent of prolapse and the degree of autonomic dysfunction or the severity of symptoms of chest pain, palpitations, dyspnea on exertion and anxiety. The development of uniform diagnostic standards for mental disorders has helped to make it possible to identify several related entities, including generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder and agoraphobia; patients with these disorders frequently somatize their anxiety and complain of many symptoms which may be seen in patients with MVP. Although several studies have reported an increased frequency of MVP in patients with anxiety disorders, recent studies suggest that the conditions are not linked. Iatrogenic cardiac neurosis is common in both groups of patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

For at least the last 200 years it has been suspected that somatic manifestations of psychological distress play a role in the medical recognition and treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD). The cardiovascular system is intricately linked to the experience of emotion, and these links may explain how and when neuroticism can cloud the diagnosis of cardiovascular disease. A possible source of anginal symptoms in the absence of angiographically documented CAD is high standing on the personality dimension of neuroticism, which is a broad dimension of individual differences in the tendency to experience negative, distressing emotions and to possess associated behavioral and cognitive traits. A brief review of the clinical cardiologic literature on chest pain is presented, with special attention to distinguishing true angina pectoris from pseudoangina and related syndromes. After a brief description of the major dimensions of normal personality, especially the domain of neuroticism, empirical evidence is reviewed on 1,191 adult men and women who 10 years earlier had made chest pain or discomfort reports part of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. The findings illustrate neuroticism's links to illness and disease. When the mean initial neuroticism levels of the chest pain groups were compared, significantly higher initial levels of neuroticism were found for those who reported any pain or discomfort. As hypothesized, logistic regression results on myocardial infarction death indicated no increased risk due to neuroticism. Neuroticism was related to increased somatic complaints, including chest pain or angina-like complaints, but was not causally or etiologically related to objective signs or pathophysiologic evidence of disease, especially CAD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A longitudinal study, based on interviews with 308 middle-class, preponderantly white mothers, provided an opportunity to evaluate the continuity, predictive factors, and behavioral correlates of sleep problems in young children. When their children were 8 months old, 10% of the mothers reported that their babies woke three or more times per night, 8% reported that the babies took an hour or more to settle after waking, 5% complained that their own sleep was severely disrupted by the child, and 18% reported at least one of these problems. At 3 years of age, 29% of the children had difficulty getting to bed and/or falling asleep or staying asleep. Of children with a sleep problem at 8 months of age, 41% still had a problem at 3 years of age, whereas only 26% of children without a problem at 8 months of age had a problem at 3 years of age (P less than .001). Among children with sleep problems at 8 months of age, mothers' depressed feelings were the only measured demographic or psychosocial factor associated with persistent sleep problems (P = .02). A separate analysis indicated that these depressed feelings did not appear to be a consequence of the child's sleep problem. Future studies should evaluate how maternal depression interacts with other factors to result in persistent sleep problems. Children with persistent sleep problems were more likely to have behavior problems, especially tantrums (P less than .02) and behavior management problems (P less than .01), than were children without persistent sleep problems (P less than .02).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

1. Ro 15-8081 (Hoffmann-La Roche, Basle, Switzerland) is a novel mixed 5-HT/noradrenaline uptake inhibitor producing potent antinociceptive effects in animal pain models. 2. In healthy man, two models with electrically and thermally induced pain, respectively, have been shown to reliably discriminate between the effects of opioid as well as of antipyretic analgesics and placebo. 3. This study investigated the effects of single oral doses of 10, 25, and 50 mg Ro 15-8081 in comparison with 60 mg codeine and placebo on threshold and tolerance to electrically induced pain and on threshold to thermally induced pain. Furthermore, the effects on psychomotor function, self-rated subjective feelings, and side effect profile were studied. 4. Twenty healthy males participated each in five experiments in which they received, in random double-blind fashion, each of the treatments. Every experiment comprised two series of measurements before and twelve after drug administration, carried out at 30 min intervals. 5. Ro 15-8081 produced marked elevations of threshold and tolerance to electrically and of threshold to thermally induced pain. The effects of all doses of Ro 15-8081 were significantly superior to those of placebo. Threshold and tolerance to electrically induced pain were not affected differently by the three doses of Ro 15-8081, whereas the threshold to thermally induced pain was elevated significantly more by 50 mg than by 10 and 25 mg Ro 15-8081. 6. Codeine 60 mg had a more rapid onset of action and greater maximal effects than Ro 15-8081.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

G-LOC--+Gz-induced loss of consciousness--results in significant acute incapacitation, including a period of unconsciousness lasting approximately 15 s followed by an additional period of approximately 15 s of confusion and disorientation. During routine experimentation for other purposes, four individuals experienced recurrent (3-5) episodes of G-LOC over 6-15 min. While G-LOC was neither an intended nor a desired event, we acknowledged the difficulty of stopping very high onset +Gz (VHOG) runs rapidly enough on the basis of visual endpoints to avoid occasional G-LOCs, which occurred in this limited series of experiments at a greater rate than in our more typical protocols. The requirement to define physiologic responses of fliers to operationally-relavent VHOG profiles made the development of these data pertinent and necessary. The recurrent G-LOC episodes accentuated the psychologic reactions experienced by the subjects, and allowed detailed analysis. Three of the individuals underwent detailed psychiatric interrogation to define the resultant G-LOC reactions. In addition to the post-G-LOC difficulty in recognizing the unconsciousness episode due to amnesia, specific psychologic reactions such as suppression (denial) further complicate one's ability to recognize the episode. G-LOC episodes may also lead to a reduction in combat readiness and aggressive capability in aerial combat. Recovery from G-LOC occurs in phases characterized by specific psychologic factors. The major psychologic reactions following G-LOC include confusion, disorientation, suppression of G-LOC recognition, unreliability, altered judgment, embarrassment, dissociation, euphoria, anxiety, fear, antagonism, and a "give-up" attitude.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The steps of the nursing process apply to needs of the spirit as well as body and mind. Several nurses have provided guidelines for assessing spiritual needs. Stoll, for example, considers four areas of concern: the person's concept of God; source of strength and hope; significance of religious practices and rituals; and perceived relationship between spiritual beliefs and state of health. In approaching the patient about these four areas, it is important for the nurse to clearly articulate the purpose in seeking such information. For instance, a nurse might explain to a patient that research has demonstrated the positive relationship of spiritual concerns to a patient's ability to cope with chronic illness. Because the nurse is interested in assisting the patient to identify, strengthen, and develop a variety of coping strategies, spiritually related data are relevant to the patient's care. Having collected data from the patients, a nursing diagnosis can be made. Spiritual concerns, spiritual distress, and spiritual despair have been included in the accepted classification system. Meeting the spiritual needs of patients can be uncomfortable for the nurse. Several reasons for such discomfort include embarrassment, the belief that it is not the nurse's role, lack of training, and the lack of own spiritual resources. Experience with an elective course in spirituality for undergraduate nursing students would support the value of offering training. Discussing God-related issues can assist a health care professional to clarify a personal spiritual position.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Seven healthy trained men were studied to determine if running at various relative intensities [percent maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max)] alters peripheral venous levels of leucine enkephalin-like material. Enkephalins were measured using a radio-receptor assay (Leu-Enk RRA). Subjects ran for 80 min at 40 and 60% VO2max and for 40 min at 80% VO2max. Each session was separated by at least 1 wk. Heart rate, blood pressure, lactic acid, and rectal temperature responses increased in an intensity-dependent manner. Epinephrine increased from resting values of 38.2 +/- 6.8 pg X ml-1, mean +/- SE to 75.0 +/- 13.3 pg X ml-1 during the 40% VO2max run, from 60.2 +/- 15 to 186 +/- 45 pg X ml-1 during the 60% run, and from 33.4 +/- 7.6 to 311 +/- 52 pg X ml-1 at the 40th min of the highest workload (80% VO2max). These increases were significant (P less than 0.05). Plasma Leu-Enk RRA was between 3.8 and 6.2 pmol X ml-1 prior to each run and did not change significantly as a result of exercise. Levels of Leu-Enk RRA also did not change during 30 min of supine recovery. Perception of effort increased (P less than 0.05) with increases in exercise intensity, and effort sense was unrelated to plasma Leu-Enk RRA. Psychological tension decreased significantly (P less than 0.05) following exercise at 60 and 80% of VO2max, but the decrease following the 40% run was not significant (P greater than 0.05). Reduced tension following exercise was not related to Leu-Enk RRA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, the encephalotropic and psychotropic properties of Ro 23-0364, a novel imidazobenzodiazepine with mixed benzodiazepine agonist/antagonist properties, were investigated as compared with the pure agonist diazepam utilizing quantitative EEG and psychometric analyses as well as clinical observations. Ten normal volunteers received randomized (latin square) and at weekly intervals single oral doses of placebo, 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg and 1.0 mg Ro 23-0364 and 10 mg diazepam as reference drug. EEG-recordings and evaluation of pulse, blood pressure and side effects were carried out at the hours 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8; psychometric tests at the same times except the first hour. Computer-assisted spectral analyses of the EEG demonstrated after 10 mg diazepam a typical "anxiolytic" pharmaco-EEG profile characterized by an increase of beta-activity, decrease of alpha-activity and absolute and relative power of the dominant frequency, furthered by an acceleration of the centroid of the total activity and a slowing of the centroid of the combined delta/theta-activity. In addition, there was an increase of delta-activity specifically in the resting recording condition suggesting also sedative properties of the reference compound. Ro 23-0364 induced in the vigilance-controlled recordings a similar profile as diazepam-although less pronounced-thereby exhibiting tranquilizing qualities. However, in the resting condition the most consistent change was an augmentation of delta/theta-activity along with an attenuation of alpha-activity, which was evident already in the lower dosage range and is reminiscent also of changes seen after sedative neuroleptic drugs (although the centroid slowing was missing). These data indicate a selective sedation of the mixed agonist/antagonist in the resting state. Dose-efficacy calculations based on EEG-changes demonstrated the reference compound, 1.0 and 0.5 mg Ro 23-0364 different from placebo. 10 mg diazepam was by far the most CNS-active compound inducing significantly more changes than the three doses of the mixed agonist/antagonist. Within the latter the two higher doses were superior to 0.25 mg but could not be differentiated from each other. Time-efficacy calculations showed the maximal encephalotropic effect of diazepam within the first two hours while the peak effect of 1.0 mg and 0.5 mg Ro 23-0364 fell into the 6th and 4th hour, respectively. There were no differences between the time periods after 0.25 mg although there was a trend towards high activity in the first two hours followed by a trough in the 4th and 6th hour and thereafter again an increase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Significant progress has been made in the past few years in defining the role of behavioral stress in the precipitation of cardiac arrhythmias. This is largely attributable to the development of relevant biobehavioral models and the advent of quantitative methods for assessing myocardial electrical stability in conscious animals. Classic and instrumental aversive conditioning has been shown to decrease electrical stability even in the normal heart. During evolving myocardial ischemia or infarction, the stress states can precipitate major arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation. Natural emotions have also been shown to be capable of altering the propensity to fibrillation. Notably, provocation of an angerlike state has been shown to decrease the vulnerable period threshold by 40% to 50%. The poststress phase can be particularly hazardous, as suggested by the profound myocardial perfusion abnormalities that have been observed within 1 to 3 min after cessation of anger. Cryogenic blockade of the thalamic gating system or its output from the frontal cortex to the brainstem blunts significantly the profibrillatory influence of stress. This indicates that discrete pathways within the central nervous system mediate the deleterious influence of aversive states on heart rhythm. Adrenergic factors appear to constitute the major effector component. This is supported by the observation that pharmacologic or surgical sympathectomy is capable of annulling the arrhythmogenic influence of diverse types of stress. The generally deleterious influence of the adrenergic system appears to be counteracted by vagal activity. The underlying mechanism is a muscarinically mediated inhibition of norepinephrine release from sympathetic nerve endings and a blunting of the actions of the adrenergic transmitters at the receptor level.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This article reviews the epidemiologic evidence linking psychological factors and various indexes of coronary heart disease (CHD) that has been gathered since the Amelia Island Conference in 1978. In general, studies of populations not selected according to CHD risk support the conclusion that the global type A construct is predictive of increased risk of coronary events. In high-risk groups, including patients undergoing coronary angiography, the evidence with respect to global type A is much less clear. This stems from the fact that most of these studies, although generally failing to find statistically significant relationships between coronary events and type A behavior, are flawed in a number of ways, including inadequate statistical power of results, use of less than adequate instruments, and failure to take an apparent interaction between type A behavior and age into account. Nevertheless, taken together, these findings suggest that it may be possible to identify measures of coronary-prone behavior that are more powerful than the global type A measure. Extensive evidence suggests that such measures may be found in the domain of hostility and anger. Measures of hostility and anger coping styles have been found to be associated with coronary atherosclerosis in populations in which global type A was not related to disease, and measures of hostility have predicted increased coronary events and total mortality in prospective population samples followed for from 20 to 25 years. Preliminary evidence suggests that hostility/anger characteristics may account for the increased coronary risk associated with global type A behavior.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Recent work on natural categories suggests a framework for conceptualizing people's knowledge about emotions. Categories of natural objects or events, including emotions, are formed as a result of repeated experiences and become organized around prototypes (Rosch, 1978); the interrelated set of emotion categories becomes organized within an abstract-to-concrete hierarchy. At the basic level of the emotion hierarchy one finds the handful of concepts (love, joy, anger, sadness, fear, and perhaps, surprise) most useful for making everyday distinctions among emotions, and these overlap substantially with the examples mentioned most readily when people are asked to name emotions (Fehr & Russell, 1984), with the emotions children learn to name first (Bretherton & Beeghly, 1982), and with what theorists have called basic or primary emotions. This article reports two studies, one exploring the hierarchical organization of emotion concepts and one specifying the prototypes, or scripts, of five basic emotions, and it shows how the prototype approach might be used in the future to investigate the processing of information about emotional events, cross-cultural differences in emotion concepts, and the development of emotion knowledge.

A specter is haunting our streets--the specter of AIDS, a remorseless and incurable disease whose nature, transmission and effects still contain elements of mystery. The fear of AIDS is pervasive. Most of us experience this fear as an uneasy but usually abstract awareness of its presence in the society. This awareness, however, may be jolted into something more concrete and immediate when we need to make or react to such decisions as whether our children should attend school with an AIDS victim or whether to require tests for the presence of AIDS antibodies (ELISA test) in food handlers and health workers. But populations at risk of infection with AIDS face a fear of a different quality. For hemophiliacs requiring the transfusion of blood products, for users of contaminated needles, even under certain circumstances for those who engage in heterosexual intercourse, infection with AIDS has to be a real issue. For homosexuals with an active sex life the fear is constant; ways must be found to come to terms with it. In this presentation I shall offer a series of vignettes illustrating reactions to the threat of AIDS that range from the distinctly maladaptive to the appropriately adaptive. I shall discuss some of the psychodynamic mechanisms operative in these cases and make general observations about the fear of AIDS in target populations.

The inhibitory effects of 3-amino-9,13b-dihydro-1H-dibenz[1,5-a]azepine hydrochloride (WAL 801 CL), a new H1-receptor antagonist, on histamine-induced skin wheals were studied in 9 volunteers. The study was a double-blind, randomized (Latin square) change-over, intraindividual comparison of the effects of single doses of 2,6 and 18 mg WAL 801 CL and of placebo and 2 mg ketotifen on skin wheals induced by intradermal injections of 5 micrograms hystamine 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 h after administration of the drugs. The injection of 5 micrograms was also made prior to each drug administration. The effects on psychological performance and the subjective state were also evaluated. The following tests were employed: simple visual reaction time (RT), critical flicker fusion frequency (C3F) and von Zerssen's self-rating scale Bf-S, assessing state of mood. There was a washout period of at least 72 h between each course of treatment. A decrease in the size of the histamine wheal was observed 1 h after WAL 801 CL and was maintained for at least 8 h. The reduction in the size of the histamine wheal was between 44% (2.0 mg) and 71% (18.0 mg). After ketotifen a marked decrease in the wheal area was observed between 4 and 8 h after administration of the drug, with maximum histamine antagonism of 59% after 6 h. The inhibitory effects of 6 and 18 mg WAL 801 CL and 2 mg ketotifen were statistically significant compared with placebo. 8 of 9 subjects felt tired (subjective report) after ketotifen, corresponding changes could be detected by Zerssen's state of mood scale Bf-S, but not by other psychological performance measures (RT, C3F).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Chloroquine prophylaxis for malaria was available free of charge to pregnant women in Saradidi, Kenya. The drug was supplied by village health helpers (VHH's). However, only 29.1% of 357 pregnant women seen in antenatal clinics from 1983 to 1984 were on chemoprophylaxis. One hundred and seven pregnant women not using antimalarial chemoprophylaxis from 22 villages were interviewed in June 1984 to determine the reasons. Age (mean 26.9 years), parity (mean 4.5 children), occupation (96.3% subsistence farmers and housewives) and education (median five to seven years) of the 107 respondents were similar to other women in the area. Previous pregnancies had occurred in 92 women; for 15 this was the first pregnancy. The last pregnancy had resulted in a live birth for 81 (88.0%), a stillbirth for nine (9.8%) and a miscarriage for two (2.2%); 21 (22.8%) of the 92 had experienced a miscarriage or stillbirth at some time (15 once, five twice and one woman four times). Malaria was the most frequent mentioned (28.6% of 21 women) cause of the last stillbirth or abortion. The major reason for not taking chemoprophylaxis was lack of awareness that the service was available (53.3% of 107 women). Other reasons were fear of chloroquine-induced itching (10.3%), the VHH had no drug (8.4%), the VHH had not advised her to take drug (8.4%), the woman was 'not sick' (7.5%), the woman was 'lazy' (6.5%), she had not been advised by clinic so was afraid to mix medicines (3.7%) and chloroquine was 'bad for pregnancy' (1.9%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The brain regions that may be functionally involved in the control of anxiety and the development of seizures were examined using quantitative 1-14C-deoxyglucose autoradiography. For this purpose, beta-carbolines FG 7142 and DMCM were employed. They exert their effects via the benzodiazepine receptor, and whereas both possess anxiogenic properties, FG 7142 is a proconvulsant and DMCM a potent convulsant. The pattern of increases of local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) induced by FG 7142 was mainly restricted to limbic structures, such as the lateral septal nucleus, the anterior thalamic nuclei, and the mamillary nuclei. However, structures involved in motor regulation were also affected. A pronounced increase in LCGU was observed in the posterior part of the substantia nigra, pars reticulata. Further, the LCGU of the globus pallidus, the ventral thalamic nucleus, and the cerebellum was increased. DMCM likewise increased LCGU of the mamillary body and the lateral septal nucleus. In contrast to FG 7142, the hippocampal formation displayed an increase in LCGU, while LCGU of the anterior thalamic nuclei was unchanged. A pronounced increase in LCGU was seen in the substantia nigra, pars reticulata in addition to other structures functionally involved in central motor regulation. The specific benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 antagonized the effects of both FG 7142 and DMCM. It is concluded that the beta-carbolines FG 7142 and DMCM produce selective effects upon LCGU that are mediated by benzodiazepine receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A circumplex model of emotion was used to examine the role of hedonic tone and degree of arousal in the effects of induced mood on children's persistence behavior. A total of 45 preschool children were asked to describe and think about either exciting, calm, or sad experiences and then perform a persistence task. Heart rate was continuously recorded throughout the session. Observers' ratings of facial expressions and parents' ratings of the experiences provided convergent validation of the induction procedure. Children in the excited induction were rated as displaying facial expressions and generating situations that were high on both pleasure and arousal. The facial expressions and situations of those in the calm induction were also rated as positive, but less arousing, whereas those in the sad induction were rated as low on both. Concurrent heart rate recordings showed differential effects of the mood condition on autonomic arousal during the period when the children were generating the affect-inducing situations. These effects dissipated shortly after the beginning of the concentration phase of the induction procedure. Subsequent performance on a persistence task indicated that higher levels of arousal increased the amount of work completed, whereas higher levels of pleasure did not. Differential levels of autonomic arousal were displayed during the persistence task. These findings validate two important elements of the experimental design: excited versus calm states induce similar levels of pleasure but different levels of arousal, and calm versus sad states induce similar levels of arousal but different levels of pleasure. In previous research, hedonic tone and degree of arousal have often been confounded.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of the study was to ascertain whether the new hypnotic, zopiclone, was likely to produce rebound problems after short-term use, in comparison with placebo and a standard hypnotic, temazepam, and whether tapering the dosage lessened any such effects. Ten normal v olunteer subjects were administered 5 treatment sequences, each lasting 4 weeks, using a balanced design, with at least 2 weeks between sequences. The treatment sequences were: (table: see text) Each drug was given at night before retiring to bed. Daily ratings comprised a Sleep Questionnaire, Mood Rating Scales, the Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory and Bodily Symptom Scales. Both drugs improved quality of sleep but their discontinuation was followed by some worsening which was postponed but not avoided by halving the dosage for a week. Speed of, and feeling on, awakening showed discontinuation effects with temazepam but not with zopiclone. Zopiclone was associated with feelings of being troubled, tense, antagonistic and bored whereas temazepam produced drowsiness, clumsiness, dreaminess and sadness. Some increase in these ratings was noted after stopping temazepam and these were less after having the dosage. Zopiclone was associated with minimal such effects. For bodily symptoms, zopiclone produced some headache, a metallic taste, and some blurring of vision; temazepam induced nausea, memory impairment and pins and needles. Withdrawal effects on bodily symptom ratings were inconsistent and not affected by tapering off the dose. In conclusion, the administration of zopiclone tends to be associated with some dysphoric effects, temazepam with sedation. Rebound effects are minimal with zopiclone and reducing the dosage gradually does not seem necessary.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There has been little systematic study of the attitude of clients with schizophrenia toward treatment, specifically about taking medication. This study measured the attitude of 100 clients with schizophrenia toward taking their medication in the hospital. They include 47 males and 53 females ranging in age from 18 to 75 years (mean = 33). Interviews occurred on the 1st to 32nd hospital day (mean = 4). Fishbein's expectancy-value model provided the theoretical base for this study. Both open-ended and fixed-response estimates of attitude were made. Insight was measured, and the relationship between insight and attitude and between hallucinations and insight were analysed. Age and sex were evaluated in order to determine their effects, if any, on attitude. Internal consistency of both the fixed-response instruments and the insight instrument was evaluated. Clients were able to provide information about beliefs and feelings about taking medication and about insight into illness and treatment. Attitudes varied tremendously; clients frequently held both strongly positive and strongly negative beliefs at the same time. The range for the fixed-response estimate of attitude was -52 to +76; the range for the open-ended estimate was -84 to +24. However, the instruments were significantly correlated (r = 0.5640, P = less than 0.000). Clients also varied widely in their insights with some having good insight and some having poor insight. The insight instrument correlated with the fixed response instrument (r = 0.2585; P = 0.005) suggesting that insight may be related to positive attitude. Attitudes were not affected either by age or sex. Insight was negatively affected by hallucinations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We conducted four studies that pertained to excuses given for a broken social contract. In an initial field investigation, participants recalled occasions in which they had given true and false reasons for not fulfilling a social obligation. Communicated reasons tended to be external to the person, uncontrollable, and unintentional (e.g., "My car broke down"), whereas withheld reasons tended to be internal, controllable, and either intentional (e.g., "I did not want to go") or unintentional (e.g., "I forgot"). The external uncontrollable excuses were anticipated to lessen the anger of the wronged party. In a subsequent simulation study, excuses based on the categories detected in Experiment 1 were manipulated and related to anger ratings. The same pattern of results was displayed, with intent and negligence provoking the highest anger ratings. The final two studies involved laboratory manipulation of a communicated reason for coming late to an experiment. In Experiment 3, a confederate conveyed either an internal controllable, an external uncontrollable, or no reason for making a subject wait, whereas in Experiment 4, subjects were detained and created their own good, bad, any, or no excuse for being tardy, which was communicated to a second, waiting subject. A consistent pattern of good excuse/external uncontrollable reason and bad excuse/internal controllable reason was displayed; offering no excuse resulted in the same judgments as giving a poor excuse. Relative to the external uncontrollable reasons, internal controllable excuses for being late augmented aversive emotional reactions, increased negative personality ratings, and resulted in a desire for no further social contact.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study the encephalotropic and psychotropic properties of zotepine - a new tricyclic dibenzothiepine with antidopaminergic, adrenolytic and antiserotoninergic properties - were investigated utilizing quantitative EEG, psychometric and psychophysiological tests as well as clinical observations. Fifteen normal volunteers received randomized (latin square design) and at weekly intervals single oral doses of placebo, 25 mg, 50 mg and 100 mg zotepine as well as 50 mg clozapine as reference compound. Plasma samplings for blood levels, EEG recordings, and evaluation of blood pressure, pulse rate and side-effects were carried out at the hours 0, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8, while psychometric data were recorded at the same time except the first hour. Computer-assisted spectral analysis of the EEG demonstrated after all three doses significant changes as compared with placebo characterized by an augmentation of delta and theta activity, decreased of alpha and beta activity, slowing of the centroid of the total activity and alpha activity, and decrease of the dominant frequency and its absolute and relative power. Such changes are typical for low-potency basic neuroleptics of the sedative type such as chlorpromazine. Clozapine also augmented slow activities, decreased alpha activity, the dominant frequency and the alpha centroid, but induced in contrast to zotepine a concomitant increase of fast beta activity, acceleration of the beta centroid and no slowing of the dominant frequency, while the total power was significantly attenuated. These findings confirm earlier reports about the pharmaco-EEG profile of clozapine, which has a resemblance to profiles of anticholinergic antidepressants of the amitriptyline type. Psychometric tests demonstrated after the higher doses of zotepine and clozapine a deterioration of noopsychic and thymospsychic functions which was more pronounced after the reference compound than after zotepine. The lowest dose of zotepine, 25 mg, even produced an improvement in numerical memory and complex reaction. CFF, skin conductance, pupillary diameter and pupillary response measurements decreased after both compounds. Dose-efficacy calculations showed 100 mg zotepine and clozapine to be the most CNS-effective compounds, followed by 50 mg and 25 mg zotepine, while placebo induced the least changes. Time-efficacy calculations showed neurophysiological and behavioral peak effects after zotepine at the 4th and 6th hour, as compared with the 2nd and 4th hour after clozapine. Pulse rate increased with both compounds; blood pressure decreased after clozapine but remained unchanged after zotepine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The objectives of this study were to develop a reproducible behavioral model that simulates the anger state and to characterize its influence on myocardial blood flow in both the normal and compromised coronary circulations. Fourteen mongrel dogs of both sexes were studied. The animals were instrumented for the recording of electrocardiogram, arterial blood pressure, and left circumflex coronary arterial blood flow. A critical level of coronary stenosis was achieved with an adjustable occluder placed just distal to the flow probe. Anger was induced in the instrumented animals by having another dog challenge their access to food. In the absence of coronary artery stenosis, provocation of anger increased heart rate from 107 +/- 6 to 215 +/- 15 beats/min, arterial blood pressure from 95 +/- 4 to 142 +/- 5 mm Hg, and coronary blood flow from 31 +/- 5 to 72 +/- 9 ml/min. These variables returned to the preanger levels within 2 to 4 min. Induction of anger was repeated after a critical stenosis was applied to the left circumflex coronary artery. Anger increased heart rate from 112 +/- 6 to 210 +/- 16 beats/min, arterial blood pressure from 99 +/- 3 to 142 +/- 6 mm Hg, and coronary arterial flow from 23 +/- 5 to 35 +/- 7 ml/min. Within 2 to 4 min after the bout of anger, all dogs exhibited significant reductions in coronary arterial flow (35% of baseline; p less than .001), increases in coronary vascular resistance (557% of baseline; p less than .002), and ischemic ST segment changes in leads II, III, and aVF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Reports of frequency and interpretation of intellectual and mood disorders differ in multiple sclerosis (MS). Forty-one patients with MS defined according to MacAlpine's criteria were evaluated by psychometric tests (WAIS) and neuropsychologic examinations (study of language, gnosic and praxic activities, dynamic gestural organization, memory and learning) together with, in 24 of them, the AMDP psychopathologic rating scale. Intellectual disorders were noted in 65 p. 100 of patients. Although more frequent in severe and chronic forms they were nevertheless of early onset since more than a half of the patients with onset of disease less than 5 years ago were affected. Their semiology was fairly homogeneous, combining disturbances of dynamic gestural organization (decomposition or simplification) and memory and learning deficiencies without anomalies of instrumental functions or usual psychometric mental deterioration. Application of the AMDP scale failed to reveal any psychotic type of disorders. Mood disturbances were predominant, affecting 60 p. 100 of the subpopulation studied (24 cases) and combining, in an unexpected manner: dysphoria, euphoria and depression. Only euphoria appeared to be correlated with intellectual disorders. Frequency of both intellectual and mood disorders was similar to that reported in other series published. The relative homogeneity of semiology, seen by the correlation between the different disturbances (decomposition and simplification, plateau learning curve and euphoria) and the unusual grouping of these effects, is suggestive of their organic basis. In addition, signs and symptoms resemble the neuropsychological expression of frontal lobe lesions and certain lesions of central grey nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The role of protein, carbohydrate and fat ingestion on self-rated mood and subsequent food intake was investigated using self-reports of spontaneous food intake. Eight male and 30 female undergraduate students were instructed to list everything they ate, when they ate it, and their mood at the time of ingestion. They were asked to make these entries in a diary throughout a nine day period. Mood was rated at the beginning of each meal on three seven point scales; elated-depressed, tired-energetic, and anxious-tranquil. The amount of protein, carbohydrate, and fat as well as the total amount of food energy in each meal and the intermeal intervals (IMIs) prior to and following the meals were calculated with a computerized analysis. The energy content and the amount of each of the macronutrients contained in the stomach at the beginning and end of each meal was estimated with a mathematical model. These data were then intercorrelated using bivariate and multivariate techniques. Momentary self-rated mood was not found to be related to prior macronutrient intake nor was it predictive of subsequent intake. Long term macronutrient intake, averaged over the nine recording days, was found to be related to the averaged mood of the subjects. Although no significant relationships were found between the absolute amounts of the macronutrients ingested and mood, significant correlations were found between the proportion of each macronutrient in the diet and the overall self-rated mood.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of this study was to examine doctors' behavior towards patients' noncompliance and to explain it within the framework of frustration theory. Two groups of physicians participated. The first group of 30 was selected from a larger group, based on tape-recordings of patients' visits where obvious examples of noncompliance were found. The 63 physicians forming the second group were interviewed to discover their attitude/behavior towards noncompliance. The tactics observed in the first study group and reported by the second group were then analysed according to the same system of categories. In the second group RPFS (Rosenzweig Picture-Frustration Study) was also applied to find determinants of the doctors' behavior. In general, 11 different tactics were identified but only five were applied by more than 10% of doctors from either group. These were: medical threat (most frequently used in both groups) carrying the doctor's point in an indulgent atmosphere, authoritarian tactics, medical information, withdrawal. There were no significant differences between the groups as to the tactics used (i.e. no differences between observed and reported behavior), on the contrary, a positive correlation was found. The doctors applied certain tactics of doubtful effectiveness which might worsen the patient's emotional state or harm him as a person. On the other hand, many valuable techniques of proved efficacy were not used. When the doctors' tactics were interpreted within the framework of frustration theory as task-oriented or ego-defensive, it was found that in both groups the ego-defensive tactics predominated. The kind of tactics adopted towards noncompliance was strongly determined by the attitude towards frustration measured by RPFS (Kendall Q coefficient = 0.92).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There have been several notable recent trends in the area of learning and memory. Problems with the episodic/semantic distinction have become more apparent, and new efforts have been made (exemplar models, distributed-memory models) to represent general knowledge without assuming a separate semantic system. Less emphasis is being placed on stable, prestored prototypes and more emphasis on a flexible memory system that provides the basis for a multitude of categories or frames of reference, derived on the spot as tasks demand. There is increasing acceptance of the idea that mental models are constructed and stored in memory in addition to, rather than instead of, memorial representations that are more closely tied to perceptions. This gives rise to questions concerning the conditions that permit inferences to be drawn and mental models to be constructed, and to questions concerning the similarities and differences in the nature of the representations in memory of perceived and generated information and in their functions. There has also been a swing from interest in deliberate strategies to interest in automatic, unconscious (even mechanistic!) processes, reflecting an appreciation that certain situations (e.g. recognition, frequency judgements, savings in indirect tasks, aspects of skill acquisition, etc) seem not to depend much on the products of strategic, effortful or reflective processes. There is a lively interest in relations among memory measures and attempts to characterize memory representations and/or processes that could give rise to dissociations among measures. Whether the pattern of results reflects the operation of functional subsystems of memory and, if so, what the "modules" are is far from clear. This issue has been fueled by work with amnesics and has contributed to a revival of interaction between researchers studying learning and memory in humans and those studying learning and memory in animals. Thus, neuroscience rivals computer science as a source of interdisciplinary stimulation. Research on topics such as memory for spatial location, the relation between memory and affect, and autobiographical memory reminds us that general theories of memory based on studies of verbal materials alone are limited. Investigating how people remember complex natural events should provide us with a larger set of memory phenomena to explain and consequently insight into a wider range of memory principles or a deeper understanding of the ones we already accept (e.g. the role of repetition, encoding specificity), including their functional significance for human behavior.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The ability to perform physical activity, whether at work or as recreation, is an important aspect of human experience for men and women of all ages. The extension of the range of physical power output that characterizes improvement in "physical fitness" is a desirable goal for all. It helps to make physical activity more enjoyable and less fatiguing, it can facilitate the learning of new skills and may actually improve cognitive functions, and it decreases the likelihood of physical injury and helps to speed recovery from injury. A sound mind in a sound body has been a medical ideal since Greek and Roman times. For a continuing state of good health, all systems--physical, mental, and spiritual--should be exercised in harmony. At the beginning of the twentieth century, the average life span for women was barely 5 years beyond the menopause. Menopause heralded the twilight years of life and enhanced susceptibility to disease and deterioration of health. Today, women look forward to 25 additional years, a full one third of a lifetime; menopause now heralds potential promise, adventure, and exploration, an exciting new phase of the life cycle. Exercise represents a vital part of a prescription to maximize quality of life throughout this period. Physical conditioning cannot be expected to complete reverse the unrelenting effects of passing time, but it appears that it can substantially modify this process. Functional losses that in the past have been attributed only to age may, in fact, represent a combined effect of biologic aging and physical inactivity. Exercise helps to maintain the physiologic adaptations that support an enhanced biologic reserve in body systems that tend to lose reserve capacity with advancing age. "If you don't use it, you lose it!," and its positive corollary, "If you use it, you enthuse it!," may be maxims that imply a natural law of deep consequence. An optimal diet and suitably vigorous activity are advisable for all women as they enter the postmenopausal phase of life. Every mature woman ought to carefully consider choosing to pursue an appropriate goal: active participation in a specific exercise program under medical supervision. The health care system should be fully responsive to the special needs of the mature woman, and the importance of providing programs of physical activity designed to address these needs should be recognized. For the postmenopausal woman, the advantages of achieving a state of physical fitness are many.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The prevalence of craniomandibular disorders was studied in 285 17-year-old adolescents with the aid of a questionnaire and a functional examination of the masticatory system including evaluation of TMJs, masticatory muscles, mandibular mobility, and occlusion. The adolescents were followed up longitudinally two more subsequent years. Totally 27 subjects dropped out, leaving 258 for the longitudinal intraindividual comparisons. At the age of 17 a fifth of the subjects reported some symptoms involving the masticatory system, of which most were mild, according to the anamnestic index (Ai) used. Oral parafunctions were commonly reported of which nail-biting dominated. Grinding and clenching of teeth were reported by 8% and 11% respectively. Signs of mandibular dysfunction were found in 56% of the adolescents and were mostly mild according to the dysfunction index (Di) used. Girls more often had signs of mandibular dysfunction than boys. Morphologic malocclusion was recorded in 35%, unilateral contact in RP in 77%, lateral shift between RP and IP greater than or equal to 0.5 mm in 19% and mediotrusion interferences in 30% among the 17-year-olds. No significant difference between sexes was found. Of the sample 62% had either some sign or symptom of dysfunction and there was a positive relationship between the dysfunction indices used. Neither morphologic nor functional malocclusions were related to the Ai. TMJ sounds were related to palpation tenderness in the lateral pterygoid muscle and impaired mobility of the mandible. The number of masticatory muscles tender to palpation was related to reports of fatigue in the jaw, TMJ tenderness, and mediotrusion interferences. Recurrent headache was reported by about 18% of the girls and by almost 6% of the boys. Fatigue in the jaws and difficulties in chewing were commoner in those with frequent and more intensive headache. Tenderness to palpation of the masticatory muscles and impaired mandibular mobility were significantly commoner findings among those with recurrent headaches and those with more intense headache. Tooth-grinding and clenching were related to frequency but not to intensity of headache. Reports of TMJ sounds increased with age for girls who also more frequently reported recurrent headaches than boys. The prevalence of symptoms of mandibular dysfunction was about 20% each year, but there was no general increase of frequency and severity of symptoms during the observation period in spite of an incidence of 8%. The prevalence was, according to the Ai, significantly higher for 18- and 19-year-old girls than for boys. Most symptoms were mild and fluctuated longitudinally.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

In a prospective study to identify psychological factors affecting survival in cancer patients receiving radiation therapy, 101 consecutive patients were evaluated for anxiety, depression, and perception of the seriousness of the condition. In 3 years, the survivors were compared to the nonsurvivors. The survivors had significantly higher mean trait anxiety (p less than 0.05) than the nonsurvivors. State anxiety and depression scores also tended to be higher in the survivors (p less than 0.01). Self-assessment of the seriousness of their disease did not differentiate the two groups. The nonsurvivors had significantly more pain (p less than 0.05). Within the nonsurvivor group, survival time was negatively correlated with state anxiety (p less than 0.01), trait anxiety (p less than 0.02), and depression (p less than 0.01). In the nonsurvivors, women rated their condition to be significantly more serious than men (p less than 0.01). Female nonsurvivors tended to rate their condition to be more serious than female survivors (p less than 0.1), while male nonsurvivors rated their condition to be significantly less serious than male survivors (p less than 0.01). Only among female nonsurvivors did the seriousness rating correlate significantly with anxiety (p less than 0.01). The sex differences confirm our previous finding that men may tend to cope with cancer with more massive denial than women. We hypothesize that patients with higher anxiety and depression in the nonsurvivor group had a massive defensive failure, while those who had high anxiety levels in the survivor group had been more realistic about their disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A 1983 telephone survey of 610 respondents in two Maryland counties found that the general disposition of the respondents toward the criminal justice system was a better predictor of abstract attitudes toward the death penalty than either the respondents' fear of becoming crime victims or whether they had been victims of crime. Yet respondents' fear of crime victimization was a better predictor of their willingness to impose the death penalty or to accept mitigating circumstances during the penalty phase of a capital case than their abstract attitudes toward the criminal justice system. Respondents who were "somewhat" afraid of crime victimization were less likely to support the death penalty than were respondents who were "very" afraid or "not" afraid of victimization. These finding indicate that previous research on the death penalty may have been flawed because the wording of the questions asked was too abstract and unidimensional.

This paper is an examination of the long-term parenting experiences of parents who have given birth to CNS damaged infants. In particular, the focus is on the mourning, regression, rage, and depression that frequently attend these parents throughout their lives and can become pathological and pathogenic interferences with the provision of good-enough parenting. Several clinical vignettes were presented, each of which illustrated the usefulness of different psychoanalytic clinical theories about normality and pathology of parenting and parent-child interaction. The now-classical contribution of Solnit and Stark (Mourning and the Birth of a Defective Child, 1962) is reviewed along with Benedek's and others' psychoanalytic theories about normal parenting. The thinking of these writers is within the framework of structural/libidinal theory and seems to be useful in describing certain parenting problems that concern the mourning and regressive aspects of parenting. However, it was proposed that some of the adaptive coping and pathology encompassed by Solnit and Stark's explanations is not comfortably illuminated by the structural clinical theory of conflict and drives. Freud's discussion (1917) compares mourning and melancholia, which he differentiated as related but dynamically distinct clinical phenomena. This work is briefly recalled as an earlier point in theory building where structural theory was not sufficient to explain clinical depression and rage that exceeds normal mourning (as in Freud's melancholia). It is felt that an additional theoretical perspective on parenting provided by self psychology can fill in some of the gaps left by structural theory explanations. The self psychology perspective is particularly helpful with understanding the rage, ambivalence, and chronic depression often experienced by parents of damaged children. According to this perspective, the damaged child is a disappointing selfobject for the parent, and the parent's self organization will give him the resources to cope adaptively or to develop narcissistic pathology. Three types of intrapsychic problems for a parent are described: mourning the lost object, the fantasied perfect child; experiencing and recovering from regression to early identifications with his own parents; withstanding tension and regulating one's self (experiencing chronic depression and rage) when confronted with a great disappointment in a selfobject (represented by the damaged child). It is important when designing intervention strategies in a hospital or pediatric clinic setting to clarify which type of problem is the major focus of the parent's struggle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Among the side effects commonly reported with the use of beta-blockers are symptoms related to the central nervous system (CNS). In this study we compared the effects of four beta-blockers with different ancillary properties (atenolol, metoprolol, propranolol, and pindolol) and placebo on objective and subjective measures of CNS function in 30 healthy male subjects. All subjects were randomly assigned to a double-blind, placebo controlled, Latin-square design study in which five 1 week periods of drug or placebo administration were separated by 2 week washout periods. Laboratory evaluations were conducted at the end of each treatment period, and included multistage exercise stress testing; questionnaire assessments of mood state, sexual function, and sleep habits; tests of psychomotor function; and overnight polysomnographic measures of sleep. Significant effects on sleep continuity were observed for each of the lipophilic drugs, as reflected in the number of awakenings (pindolol = 6.4 +/- 5.0; propranolol = 6.3 +/- 3.2; metoprolol = 7.2 +/- 4.7; atenolol = 3.6 +/- 2.9; placebo = 3.9 +/- 2.7) and time of wakefulness (pindolol = 20.6 +/- 27.0 min; propranolol = 15.5 +/- 23.0 min; metoprolol = 19.5 +/- 24.3 min; atenolol = 10.2 +/- 11.6 min; placebo = 9.2 +/- 74.5 min). Only pindolol significantly affected rapid eye movement (REM) sleep time (pindolol = 54.5 +/- 21.9 min; placebo = 74.5 +/- 74.5 min) and REM latency (pindolol = 175.0 +/- 60.7 min; placebo = 95.4 +/- 43.8 min). Subjective reports of sleep similarly indicated increased wakefulness and greater restlessness with lipophilic beta-blockers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The loss of a significant object, the loss of a home (security, personal possessions, familiar space that has emotional meaning), the dislocation from one's home or land as occurs in wars or disasters, gives rise to stress-strain responses that may have short-term or long-term effects, eg, post-traumatic stress disorder. The hidden or neglected victims of such occurrences frequently are children--be they siblings or direct descendants. In childhood sibling loss, the effects of the loss are mediated through different members of the family. The acute stressors can give rise to later adversity unless it is recognized that there is a social context in which life and death events occur. Recognizing these individual responses in the family can lead to interventions that may prevent later difficulty. Understanding the meaning of the events to the child, appreciating the fact that events are not just single occurrences, but interact with what existed before as well as with other concomitant events, helps in our therapeutic recommendations and interventions. Sibling loss, though initially related to the death of a sibling, can now be expanded to include the loss of a sibling through chronic illness (emotional, medical, surgical, long-term hospitalization), birth injuries, disabled children (accidents or illness with body changes), chronic illness with visible as well as non-visible changes that require special parental and nursing care, medication on an ongoing basis, and restrictions in diet and activities. The impacts of these losses without death can have devastating effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Leslie Stephen, the father of Virginia Woolf, was a cacophony of contradictions. From all accounts, he was a bully, a manipulator, and a blustering, pessimistic, emotionally dishonest man. Although he could be lovable, charming, whimsical, encouraging, and deeply devoted to his family, he subjugated the adult women in his household and at least one son to exploitation and abuse, demanding (and receiving from his wife and step-daughter) almost total abnegation of self. Julia Stephen, in contrast, was an optimistic, seemingly selfless person, who characteristically presented herself in an "up" mood to the world. Virginia incorporated both parental moods into her character structure, as have a number of the author's cyclothymic patients. Therefore, it is postulated that pessimism and habitual deflating affronts on the part of one parent, in combination with a compulsive "good mood" on the part of the second parent, are a particularly lethal combination of character traits, which in their offspring may contribute to the rapid mood shifting characteristic of manic depression. In contrast to Julie, Stephen was a presence who could not be side-stepped. This combination of sweet and monstrous attributes in her father's nature, and again in the contrasting temperaments of the parental couple, must have been impossible to integrate for the small Virginia, who already was desperately engaged in the struggle for selfhood. She could not complete her development on the oedipal level, although she loved her father dearly, because identification with her mother meant further threat to an identity already weakened at the separation-individuation phase of development. Virginia's solution was to identify with her father in his character, his sexual identity, and his profession. Stephen, who was particularly devoted to Virginia, whom he regarded as an extension of himself, encouraged this identification, and served as her teacher and mentor. In that sense, he truly was the captain of the ship in her voyage To the Lighthouse, master of the currents that swept her onward to the grand light of her genius. A four-fold comparison of Virginia Woolf and Leslie Stephen is made concerning their respective ages of weaning, success in navigating both the rapproachment phase of separation-individuation and the oedipal period, and the ages at which their mothers died. It appears that Virginia lost her mother at those four critical periods when Leslie did not.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The Interaction Model of Client Health Behavior (IMCHB) was used to direct a systematic and comprehensive description of community-based elders. The abstract concepts, constructs, factors, and variables described by one element of the model were able to account for 54% of the variance in elders' health status and 47% of the variance in their well-being. The model, as operationalized in this study, pointed to clear demographic, social, and health profiles that identified the elder at risk for decreased health, well-being, and self-care potential. The IMCHB would appear to be a useful framework with which to establish an empirical base on which nursing interventions could be developed.

In previous experiments we implicated projections from the medial geniculate body (MG) to a subcortical field, involving portions of the posterior caudate-putamen and amygdala, in the classical conditioning of emotional responses to acoustic stimuli in the rat. In the present series of experiments we examined whether intrinsic neurons in the subcortical field mediate emotional conditioning and, if so, whether the critical neurons are contained within the amygdala or the caudate-putamen. Rats were prepared with a unilateral electrolytic lesion of the MG. Contralaterally, intrinsic neurons were destroyed in the subcortical field by microinjection of ibotenic acid. This lesion combination leaves one MG and one subcortical field intact but disconnected. Controls received unilateral injection of phosphate buffer vehicle into the subcortical field contralateral to the MG lesion or were unoperated. After two weeks the animals were instrumented for continuous, computer-assisted recording of arterial pressure and heart rate and subjected to classical conditioning trials involving the presentation of a pure tone in association with foot-shock. The occurrence of the shock with respect to the tone was random for a pseudoconditioned control group. Conditioned changes in mean arterial pressure, heart rate and emotional behavior ('freezing') elicited by the tone were assessed during extinction trials. Following completion of the experiments, the rats were sacrificed and their brains were removed and sectioned using standard procedures. Lesion location and size was evaluated with the assistance of a computer-based image processing system. In unoperated conditioned rats the acoustic stimulus elicited increases in arterial pressure and heart rate, and induced freezing. The arterial pressure and freezing responses differed in conditioned and pseudoconditioned rats, but the heart rate response did not. Therefore, only the arterial pressure and freezing responses reflect the formation of an association between the tone and shock. Destruction of intrinsic neurons in the subcortical field contralateral to a unilateral MG lesion disrupted the associative conditioning of the arterial pressure and freezing responses. These were reduced in magnitude to the level observed in pseudoconditioned rats. The non-associative heart rate change was not affected by the lesions. That ibotenic acid destroyed intrinsic neurons and spared fibers in the subcortical field was demonstrated anatomically and biochemically.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

A meta-analysis was performed on 68 studies to examine the effect of preoperative instruction on postoperative outcomes. The 68 studies represented 2,413 experimental subjects and 1,605 control group subjects and yielded 423 individual effect sizes. The 423 individual effect sizes had a mean effect size of 0.44 and a variance of 2.43. The mean effect size indicated that, in terms of postoperative outcomes, an average patient who received preoperative instruction was at the 66th percentile of a similar group of patients who did not receive preoperative instruction. The accompanying large variance indicated this finding was not consistent across subject-studies. Substantive characteristics of subject-studies used to categorize effect size were: type of content, method of organization, type of presentation, level of patients' fear/anxiety, and types of outcomes measured. All categories analyzed had positive effect sizes. Within categories of content, psychological and mixed forms of content produced the lowest variances. Categories of organization and presentation did not produce data to demonstrate a clear difference in the levels analyzed. Categories of patient fear/anxiety indicated that the greatest effects were achieved with patients who had high levels of fear/anxiety, followed by moderate levels and low levels. The most consistent results were found with moderate levels of fear/anxiety. When categorized by types of outcomes measured, all effect sizes remained positive. The variances accompanying each effect size remained relatively substantial at all levels of aggregation, with small variances found only at the greatest level of specificity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Bupropion is a novel new antidepressant without the undesirable anticholinergic, cardiotoxic, sedative, or sexual side effects of other available antidepressants. However, like many other antidepressants, there is a small risk that patients on bupropion may develop a seizure even at moderate doses and moderate blood levels and even in the absence of any premorbid history or other predisposing factors to epilepsy. The report presents the case of a 25-year-old woman with a 12-year history of agoraphobia and panic attacks treated with bupropion in a research protocol. She was in good physical health, with normal physical and neurological examination, and normal complete blood count, serum mineral analysis-12, and urinalysis laboratory values. She had no premorbid history of epilepsy or neurological illness, nor any other known predisposing factors to epilepsy. On day 28 of the study, immediately after her dose of bupropion was increased from 450 to 600 mg/day, she had a generalized convulsion with tonic and clonic phases, loss of consciousness, and postictal confusion that was reliably witnessed by several observers. The EEG abnormality had cleared 15 days later. Further EEGs after 4 weeks and 10 weeks were normal. Five years later she remains seizure-free, off all antiseizure medication, and without any further complications from this incident. This seizure occurred at a modest blood level of bupropion (83 ng/ml) and at a dose not considered excessive (600 mg/day). Other confounding organic and neurological illness or use of other medication was carefully and systematically ruled out, leaving the bupropion as the most likely explanation for her seizure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effects of a variety of minor tranquilizers and of benzodiazepine inverse agonists on the stress-induced increase in frontal cortical dopamine metabolism have been studied in the rat. Electric footshock stress increased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels in the frontal (but not parietal) cortex and in the nucleus accumbens but not in the striatum or ventral tegmental area. Similar stress-induced alterations of frontal cortical DOPAC levels were observed after DSP4-induced noradrenergic denervation or after adrenalectomy. Other types of stress, e.g. conditioned fear (exposure to an environment paired previously with footshock) or swim stress also provoked an elevation of DOPAC levels in the prefrontal cortex. When administered systemically, the anxiolytic agents meprobamate, CL 218,872, CGS 9896, suriclone and the hypnotic/anxiolytic drugs zolpidem and zopiclone all prevented the electric footshock stress-induced augmentation of cortical DOPAC levels whereas the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor agonists progabide, muscimol and depamide or the sedative alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin were ineffective. The preventive effect of diazepam and zolpidem on the stress-induced biochemical response was antagonized by the benzodiazepine antagonist CGS 8216 but not by the gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor antagonist bicuculline. In nonstressed rats, systemic administration of the anxiogenic benzodiazepine inverse agonists beta-CCM (methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate) and beta-CCE (ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate), but not of the benzodiazepine antagonists Ro 15-1788 or CGS 8216, caused an increase in frontal cortical DOPAC similar to that provoked by stress and which was antagonized by zolpidem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There is some evidence in the literature that adverse reactions to foods can contribute to behavioral dysfunction. In view of what is known about food and behavior, this suggestion is entirely plausible. However, clear demonstrations of adverse behavioral reactions to foods have not been reported. The major methodologic problems are those of defining suitable baseline conditions and dealing with large ranges in dose, time course, and severity of reactions among putatively food-sensitive individuals. These problems, although large, are surmountable. Another problem for studies in this area is nomenclature. The imprecision with which terms are used undoubtedly will diminish as the various mechanisms by which food can affect individuals are delineated. Until these issues are clarified, we are confronted with a group of patients who are convinced that their symptoms are somehow related to the food that they eat. Some basic guidelines may help in the initial screening of these patients. If a history of behavioral dysfunction related to food intolerance occurs in the context of other signs of allergy or hypersensitivity, it seems prudent to evaluate and treat the allergic or hypersensitivity condition and note the effect of that treatment on behavior. If the food complaints occur in the context of marked suggestibility and large numbers of unexplained complaints are registered without any evidence of allergy or hypersensitivity, a diagnosis of somatization disorder should be entertained. If food complaints occur in a patient who does not meet the criteria for somatization disorder, a working diagnosis of undiagnosed medical condition should be entertained.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The role of spinal manipulation in the relief of pain is becoming clearer and more demonstrable as time passes. One approach to this study is the effect of manipulation on the neurochemical mechanisms of antinociception. Chief among these is beta-endorphin, which has been found to produce a wide range of beneficial effects, especially analgesia. The intent of our study was to demonstrate the effect of spinal manipulation on plasma beta-endorphin levels. Three groups of male subjects were randomly created: the experimental, sham and control groups. All three groups were screened for symptomatology, present use of medications and the present use of innocuous stimulants, such as nicotine and caffeine. A standard protocol involving a 20-min pretest resting period, an intervention and a 40-min test period ensued. The experimental group received a manipulation in the region of the cervical spine; the placebo group received a sham maneuver with no dynamic thrust; the control group received no intervention. Samples were taken by venipuncture at -20, -5, +5, +10 and +30 min. The data were analyzed by repeated measures analysis of variance and by Scheffe's post-hoc multiple comparison tests. Plasma beta-endorphin levels were assessed by radioimmune assay technique (according to the method described by Harber and Sutton in 1984). The results of our study demonstrated a small, but statistically significant, increase in serum beta-endorphin levels in the experimental group at the 5-min postintervention point. The levels in the placebo and control groups demonstrated a steady decrease that was distinct from the response in the experimental group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

For P. Janet, there exists a progressive evolution in behaviours. Reflex at the start, with immediate response, they become delayed with secondary behaviours appearing grafted upon primary behaviours. They are the feelings which allow a more and more precise adaptation to physical and social reality. Having started, as did Freud, from psychical traumatism P. Janet is not interested in subconscious but particularly studies the psychological deficiencies which traumatism causes or brings to the foreground. He makes an exhaustive study of those deficiencies under the name of feeling of lack and void. Neurotics, unable to assimilate or master their traumatisms, lose their sense of the present, of reality, and of Action. They only live in day-dreams and abstract ideas. This deviation of behaviour reaches its, pitch with the melancholic. The melancholic, riveted to his past can no longer change as is the case with the patients of Minkowski. It is every day the same old story. Any idea having to do with the future is received as abominable and catastrophic. Consequently, everything appears to them as deadly and they have such a fright of action that it results in systematical reversal of action. Instead of living, they only long for death. As in Suzan Urban's theatre, as described by Bingwanger, the melancholic has the behaviour of a trapped animal. He desperately looks for a way out and turns from side to side, but finds himself systematically trapped back once more. He looks passive and inhibited, but here we have to deal with an active inhibition. The melancholic is not resigned. He would like to come out of his mental situation, but is unable to react.

This case study illustrates how one woman was able to take advantage of a variety of hospice bereavement services. In addition to attending monthly social support group meetings and six therapeutic support group sessions, Lillian received 12 home visits or approximately 18 hours of individual support. Not all hospice survivors became so intensely involved in the follow-up services programs offered by Hilltop Hospice. During the five-year period, 1980-1984, approximately 80% of the hospice survivors, or 200 clients, received some form of direct bereavement services; most of the others were provided with supportive correspondence throughout their first year of bereavement. Although approximately 10% of the hospice survivors became involved in the social and the therapeutic support groups, in addition to receiving individual support, most survivors found the individual support services to be sufficient. However, in hospice programs where resources are limited and not all survivors can be assigned a volunteer, support groups can be designed to compensate for a lack of available volunteers. A comprehensive hospice bereavement program takes into account not only the varying resources of the hospice but the individual characteristics of survivors as well. Because clients' grief experiences differ, as well as their personalities, coping styles, and circumstances, a hospice should be prepared to offer a variety of bereavement services. In addition, surviving family members may be more likely to accept follow-up support from the hospice team if they can choose a particular service to meet their individual needs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This experiment demonstrated that behavioral depression produced by exposure of rats to strong uncontrollable shocks could be reversed by infusion of the alpha-2 adrenergic agonist clonidine into the region of the locus coeruleus (LC). A 20-min infusion, through bilateral cannulae, into the locus coeruleus of clonidine, piperoxane (alpha-2 antagonist) or inactive vehicle (0.85% saline), was given beginning 70 min after the animals were removed from the stress situation. The dose and volume of drug given in the infusion (0.16 microgram/microliter, 0.1 microliter/min) had been previously shown to produce effects specific to the locus coeruleus (Weiss, Simson, Hoffman, Ambrose, Cooper and Webster, 1986; Neuropharmacology 25: 367-384). At the conclusion of the infusion, active behavior of animals was measured in a 15-min swim test. Results showed that stressed animals infused with vehicle exhibited significantly less active behavior in the swim test than did non-stressed animals infused with vehicle, thereby showing the usual behavioral depression seen after exposure to an uncontrollable stress. Stressed animals infused with clonidine showed no difference in active behavior in comparison to non-stressed animals infused with vehicle and showed significantly more activity than did the stressed animals infused with vehicle. Stressed animals infused with piperoxane showed no significant difference in activity in comparison to the stressed animals infused with vehicle and were significantly less active than either the non-stressed animals infused with vehicle or the stressed animals infused with clonidine. Thus, infusion into the locus coeruleus of the alpha-2 agonist clonidine, but not the alpha-2 antagonist piperoxane, eliminated behavioral depression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The psychological impact of the new reproductive technology should not be understated. The history of infertility treatment and failure to achieve pregnancy that most couples bring to the program, along with their hopes and expectations for success, makes them extremely vulnerable to anxiety, unrealistic expectations, and grief reactions. When a cycle of IVF fails, the intensity of the experience and the disappointment may be overwhelming for a while, but most couples are willing to try it again. One patient wrote about her feelings after IVF treatment after having read comments in a popular magazine which implied that medical science was taking control of reproduction. Those of us who go through in-vitro fertilization think long and hard about what we are doing. Most of us weigh the pros and cons very thoroughly. We weigh the risks to our potential children just as people who have genetically linked diseases do before they conceive. (Our fetuses are not "bombarded" by ultrasound procedures any more than many other pregnant women's fetuses are these days.) Most of us are thankful that the technology is now available to us, if we choose to participate. Physicians who work with IVF patients do realize that the procedure is stressful. Often the stress is viewed as primarily the patients', and we are asked to study the level of stress. To a large extent that is the subject matter of this chapter. Nevertheless, the stress is perceived because the physicians and staff are also under stress. The failure of an IVF cycle is immediately known to the health care givers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We have previously found that the coupling of changes in autonomic activity and emotional behavior to acoustic stimuli through classical fear conditioning survives bilateral ablation of auditory cortex but is disrupted by bilateral lesions of the medial geniculate nucleus or inferior colliculus in rats. Auditory fear conditioning thus appears to be mediated by the relay of acoustic input from the medial geniculate nucleus to subcortical rather than cortical targets. Since the medial geniculate nucleus projects, in addition to auditory cortex, to a striatal field, involving portions of the posterior neostriatum and underlying archistriatum (amygdala), we have sought to determine whether interruption of connections linking the medial geniculate nucleus to this subcortical field also disrupts conditioning. The conditioned emotional response model studied included the measurement of increases in mean arterial pressure and heart rate and the suppression of exploratory activity and drinking by the acoustic conditioned stimulus following delayed classical conditioning, where the footshock unconditioned stimulus appeared at the end of the conditioned stimulus. The peak increase in arterial pressure and the duration of activity and drinking suppression were greater in unoperated animals subjected to delayed conditioning than in pseudoconditioned controls, where the footshock was randomly rather than systematically related to the acoustic stimulus. Increases in heart rate, however, did not differ in conditioned and pseudoconditioned groups. While the arterial pressure and behavioral responses therefore reflect associative conditioning, the heart rate response does not. Rats were prepared with bilateral lesions of the medial geniculate nucleus, bilateral lesions of the striatal field or asymmetrical unilateral lesions destroying the medial geniculate nucleus on one side and the striatal field on the contralateral side. The latter preparation leaves one medial geniculate nucleus and one striatal field intact but disconnected and thus produces a selective auditory deafferentation of the intact striatal field. Control groups included animals with unilateral lesion of the medial geniculate nucleus, with unilateral lesion of the medial geniculate nucleus combined with lesion of the ipsilateral striatal field, unilateral lesion of the medial geniculate combined with lesion of the contralateral anterior neostriatum (a striatal area outside of the medial geniculate nucleus projection field).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

We measured total and free plasma cortisol, 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion, and corticosteroid-binding globulin in 21 normal subjects, 25 patients with depressive illness, and 6 patients with Cushing's disease. Patients with depression had mean 24-hour plasma (8.3 +/- 2.7 micrograms/dl) and urinary (36 +/- 33.55 micrograms/g creatinine) cortisol levels that did not differ from those of normal subjects (6.6 +/- 1.7 microgram/dl; 24.6 +/- 15.4 micrograms/g creatinine), but were significantly lower than those of patients with Cushing's disease (14.4 +/- 2.4 micrograms/dl; 215 +/- 101 micrograms/g creatinine). Not all patients with depression had hypercortisolemia, and the 1-mg dexamethasone suppression test identified some of those with adrenal hyperfunction. 17 of 25 patients had normal 8 a.m. and/or 4 p.m. plasma cortisol after dexamethasone (suppressors), while 8 patients had values greater than 5 micrograms/dl (nonsuppressor). Suppressors had normal total 24-hour plasma and urinary cortisol, while nonsuppressors had levels that were in the range seen in Cushing's disease. Patients with depression showed the expected circadian variation in total and free cortisol, but nonsuppressors had elevated levels in evening and early a.m. hours when levels in normal subjects were low. Patients with Cushing's disease had elevated levels throughout the day. The mean binding capacity of corticosteroid-binding globulin was not different in normal and depressed subjects (23.9 +/- 3.2 vs. 22.2 +/- 3.4 micrograms/dl), but was significantly decreased in patients with Cushing's disease (15.7 +/- 3.5 micrograms/dl). Although total cortisol levels were similar, nonsuppressors had significantly lower mean 24-hour plasma free cortisol (1.01 +/- 0.27 microgram/dl) than patients with Cushing's disease (2.4 +/- 0.54 microgram/dl).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Effects of two opioid analgesics on performance and their interactions with diazepam were studied double-blind and cross over in ten healthy students. At two-week intervals the subjects received first a single oral dose of placebo, codeine (100 mg) or pentazocine (75 mg). Then, 1 h 30 min later they were all given diazepam (0.25 mg/kg) orally. Lastly, naloxone (0.4 mg) was injected intravenously at 4 h. In addition to this, the subjects on pentazocine received a second 75 mg dose at 3 h. Codeine and pentazocine alone failed to affect performance in objective tests (body sway, digit symbol substitution, flicker fusion, Maddox wing, nystagmus) recorded at 1 h 30 min. Visual analogue scales showed subjective drug effects: pentazocine made the volunteers talkative, contented, interested and energetic, whilst codeine rendered them mentally slow. 75 mg of pentazocine and 100 mg of codeine produced comparable plasma opiate activity (determined in morphine equivalents) according to radioreceptor bioassay with [3H]-dihydromorphine as a ligand. Impaired performance was clear at the tests done 1.5 and 2.5 h after diazepam. No major interactions were found between opiates and diazepam in objective tests with the exception that nystagmus was stronger after the combined treatment than after diazepam alone. Codeine reduced the absorption of diazepam. Subjectively codeine and pentazocine counteracted the effects of diazepam. The subjects overestimated their performance after opiate + diazepam when compared to diazepam alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Recent studies have shown that periodically disrupted sleep resulted in significant daytime sleepiness and performance loss in normal young adults. One study suggested that the periodicity of disturbance rather than the total number of sleep disturbances was the primary factor in causing degraded function. However, in that study, increased performance levels could have been associated with increased levels of slow wave sleep. The present study was designed to determine whether the amount of SWS rather than the periodic disruption of sleep accounts for decreased performance of Ss with disrupted sleep. Twelve normal young adults spent two 4-night periods in the laboratory. During one 4-night series, Ss were briefly aroused either following each 10 min of sleep or whenever they entered stage 3 sleep (No SWS condition). During the second series of nights, Ss were briefly aroused after each 10 min of sleep (SWS condition). In the second series, additional arousals were performed after 5-min periods (but not when Ss were in SWS) to equalize the total number of arousals in the SWS conditions with those in the No SWS condition. Total experimental arousals were equal in the disruption conditions, and the experimental manipulation was successful in reducing total SWS to infrequent epochs of stage 3 in the No SWS condition while allowing significantly more SWS in the SWS condition. In terms of sleep stages, this difference was balanced by increased stage 2 in the No SWS condition. Despite the differential occurrence of SWS, no performance, mood, or nap latency measure was different in the SWS vs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The Sickness Impact Profile is a well known measure of functional status which has been validated as a measure of differences in function between patients, but not as a measure of within-patient change. To evaluate its performance as a measure of change, the Sickness Impact Profile was compared to a transition index that directly assesses intra-patient differences in maximal physical and emotional function. With the index, patients rate themselves as much better, slightly better, the same, slightly worse or much worse as compared to a previous assessment. When compared to the corresponding index ratings, Sickness Impact Profile subscale score changes for a rating of worse were of greater magnitude than those for a rating of better. The inherent variability of the Sickness Impact Profile score was estimated using the standard deviation of the score change for the index rating "the same". For patients to be regarded as changed they had to lie outside the probability limits of this score change. Defined in this way, only patients who stated they were worse on the index were detected. Receiver operator characteristic curves were constructed and also demonstrated that deteriorations in function were more accurately detected. Using different score cutoffs, the best true positive rate (71%) was obtained using a one point change on the psychosocial subscale. This was accompanied by a 39% false positive rate. No score value appeared sufficiently accurate to be useful. Its apparent inability to detect improvements and deteriorations equally, and the wide standard deviations for a given change in function, may limit the use of the Sickness Impact Profile for following individuals over time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Because of its reducing nature an abstract concept moves us away from the object under consideration. On the contrary, considering a formal pattern records and covers the known aspects of a configuration, the former brings us nearer to the latter. If we apply the notion of pattern to a depression it is of consequence to make a distinction between the pattern which describes the meaning of that depression and the one which states its justification. A sound epistemology prevents us from mistaking a meaning for a cause and a cause for a meaning. But is also places us before the fundamental and collective obligation of a double research: on the one hand, one which deciphers the psychodynamic mechanisms; on the other, one which detects the causal correlations of biological or social nature. Between these two orientations practice requires to make choices and compromises.

Over 50 epidemiologic, clinical, and experimental studies of behavioral influences on atherosclerosis and CHD have been reviewed; of these investigations, no more than five were published prior to 1975. Despite some inconsistencies and occasional conceptual and methodologic problems in the studies comprising this relatively young literature, the preponderance of available evidence indicates that psychosocial variables play a significant role in coronary disease. To summarize briefly, the Type A behavior pattern has been found predictive of new CHD in nearly all prospective studies of initially healthy individuals, and therapeutic modification of Type A has been shown to reduce risk of recurrent nonfatal MI. Among most prospective studies of post-MI patients and of persons at heightened risk for CHD due to elevations in traditional risk factors, however, Type A has not been found to predict, respectively, recurrence of MI or initial clinical events. Additionally, Type A individuals have shown more extensive coronary artery atherosclerosis on angiographic examination than Type Bs in a minority of studies, and, generally, only where Type A behavior has been measured by the SI. It is noted that many of these clinical studies may be faulted, though, for their use of small and heterogeneous patient samples and for possible biases in the selection and recruitment of subjects. In contrast to the globally defined Type A pattern, a high potential for hostility and an inability or unwillingness to express anger (anger-in) have emerged as significant predictors or correlates of coronary disease in all epidemiologic and clinical studies in which these variables have been examined. These consistent results suggest that a predisposition to hostility and anger, and the inhibited expression of such feelings, represent a "toxic" component of the Type A pattern. Several recent prospective investigations indicate also that high levels of life stress and possession of poor or inadequate social resources are predictive of CHD. The concepts of life stress, social network, and social support, as well as relationships among these variables, are not well-understood, however, and much additional work is needed to identify specific pathogenic and protective attributes of the social environment. In addition to studies of the psychosocial antecedents of CHD in human beings, there now are several published studies of behavioral influences on the development of coronary lesions in animal models.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The psychopharmacological effects of fluvoxamine, 50 mg twice a day, were compared with those of mianserin, 20 mg twice a day, and placebo, each given for 8 days in a double-blind crossover design to 9 healthy human volunteers. At least one week was left between the 8-day courses of drugs. Testing was carried out before and 3 h after taking the morning dose on Days 1 (pre-drug), 4, and 8, and comprised EEG, cognitive and psychomotor tasks, and self-ratings of mood and bodily symptoms. Fluvoxamine had no effect on any of the EEG wavebands, but mianserin increased voltages in the slow wavebands as compared with placebo. This effect was particularly pronounced on Days 4 and 8. Mianserin significantly decreased critical flicker fusion frequency and speed of reaction time, and slowed down tapping rate; digit symbol substitution and symbol copying test performances were also impaired by mianserin. These effects were most marked after the first dose and had lessened somewhat later in the week. Symbol copying was the only task impaired by fluvoxamine as compared with placebo. Mianserin caused drowsiness after the first dose but this effect declined by Day 8. By contrast, fluvoxamine induced feelings of anxiety, sweatiness, trembling, nausea, loss of appetite, restlessness, muscle tension, irritability, tiredness, headache, and dizziness; these effects were most evident in the middle of the week and relatively reduced at the end of the week. Mianserin produced a few of these effects but they tended to be maximal on Day 1 or 4 and then to wear off.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Heroin is currently being advocated by some as a superior therapeutic agent for use in terminal illness. However, a review of the literature on heroin presently available does not support this contention. Administered orally, heroin is approximately 1.5 times more potent than morphine in controlling chronic pain in terminal cancer patients. Its effects on mood and the incidence and nature of side effects do not differ from those of morphine except in males where poorer pain control probably accounts for the worse effect on mood. Given parenterally for acute pain, heroin is 2-4 times more potent than morphine and faster in onset of action. When the potency difference is accounted for, the pharmacological effects of heroin do not differ appreciably from those of morphine. Heroin is metabolized to 6-acetylmorphine and morphine. After oral administration of heroin, morphine but not heroin or 6-acetylmorphine is detected in blood. In this case, heroin is a prodrug for the delivery of systemic morphine. Following acute i.v. administration, heroin appears transiently in blood with a half-life of about 3 min. The half-life of heroin exposed to blood or serum in vitro is 9-22 min, indicating that organ metabolism is involved in blood clearance as well. Direct renal clearance of heroin is less than 1% of the administered dose. In animal studies, heroin and 6-acetylmorphine are both more potent and faster acting than morphine as analgesics, effects attributed to their greater lipid solubility and subsequent penetration of the blood-brain barrier. Given centrally, morphine is more potent than heroin and 6-acetylmorphine in producing analgesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The effect of local injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the lateral septum was tested in a paradigm known to lead to an energizing behavior, through a possible frustrative effect, induced by partial or total omission of reward in hungry rats. Biochemical assays in the septum showed that 6-OHDA reduced endogenous dopamine and, to a lesser extent, noradrenaline concentrations and left intact noncatecholaminergic neurons such as serotoninergic terminals. The first behavioral experiment was conducted in a double straight alley. The animals were submitted to three phases of testing with differing degrees of reinforcement: (a) an acquisition phase, in which the reinforcement was continuously delivered in the goal box of the two alleys, (b) a partial reinforced phase, in which animals received 50% partial reinforcement in the first alley and continuous reinforcement in the second alley, and (c) an extinction phase performed in one alley without any reinforcement. Animals with lesions ran faster for food than controls in the partial reinforcement or extinction situation, although there was no difference between the two groups in the acquisition phase of the continuous schedule of reinforcement or in the 50% reinforced trials of the partial reinforcement phase. The two groups also behaved similarly after the first six trials of the extinction phase. In a second experiment, the animals were tested in a lever-press conditioning task. Animals with lesions and control animals learned this task equally well, both with respect to the number of lever presses and the time to obtain a fixed number of food pellets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Two groups of consecutive patients from two different plastic surgical practice populations were evaluated to determine psychosocial differences between those who underwent immediate (n = 25) versus delayed (n = 38) breast reconstruction. Psychological assessment consisted of a standardized symptom inventory (BSI) and a specially designed self-report questionnaire investigating reactions unique to mastectomy and reconstruction. Both groups were extremely equivalent with regard to sociodemographic data, with the typical subject being a well-educated and employed Caucasian wife. Verbal reports of physical complaints revealed no significant differences between the two groups except for difficulty with arm movement, which was statistically higher for the immediate group (p = 0.006.). This difference most likely was due to the axillary dissection being performed simultaneously at the time of reconstruction. The relationship between timing of reconstruction and self-reported distress over the mastectomy experience revealed that only 25 percent of the women who underwent immediate repair reported "high distress" in recalling their mastectomy surgery compared with 60 percent of the delayed reconstruction group (p = 0.02). In reference to the two scales measuring psychological symptoms, a general trend was present, with the delayed group scoring higher (although not statistically significantly) on 9 of our 12 scales. Ninety-six percent of the immediate group and 89 percent of the delayed group reported satisfaction with results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A number of findings in different studies on mental health and disease in Ethiopia indicate differences in personality structure between traditional Ethiopians and people in Western countries. An attempt was made to study differences in personality structure between Ethiopian and Swedish adolescents. The projective Holtzman inkblot test was administered to a class of 12th grade Ethiopian students and a class of 11th grade Swedish students, using the group method. The Ethiopian students scored significantly higher on "anatomy" than the Swedish students and significantly lower on "integration", "abstract", "anxiety", "hostility" and "popular". These findings are discussed against the difference in socio-cultural background between the two groups, and it is concluded that the Holtzman inkblot technique could be a valuable tool in cross-cultural studies of personality variables.

Three methodologies to classify the affective domain are reviewed: phenetic, cladistic, and ontological. The merits and seeming deficiencies of these approaches are analyzed, and illustrative applications of these methodologies are presented. A systems analysis of the affective domain is proposed as most adequately performing the classification functions of grouping elements to emphasize their autonomy and homonomy, indicate their nature and degree of relatedness, and structurally represent abstract conceptualizations of this domain.

The experience of terminal illness can best be viewed as a situation of multiple losses involving the dying person, family members and friends, and the health care providers engaged in offering services to them. It is a major transition during which the central participants must cope with the personal meanings of the forthcoming death as well as other losses brought about by the disease process, medical treatments, and the need to provide care for the dying person. How families adapt to the stresses and changes imposed by the experience of living with dying depends on their previous experiences with death, their established patterns of communication about serious matters, and their decision-making practices. Some individuals and families are at greater risk than others for developing maladaptive responses and behaviors during and after the experience of terminal illness. Risk factors to be considered in making hypotheses about the potential for maladaptive reactions include the strength of the attachment to the dying person, uncontrollable and distressing symptoms, and coping limitations associated with age and other factors contributing to increased vulnerability to the demands of continuous change. Working effectively with different kinds of families during the transition of terminal illness can best be accomplished within a conceptual framework built upon knowledge about people undergoing change. The concept of safe conduct can serve as an overall guide for the creation of nursing services designed to offer personalized care and accessibility of professional help at times of maximum need by the family. Assisting dying patients and their families toward the achievement of their personal goals is fundamental to the idea of safe conduct. The delivery of nursing care in terminal illness requires an orientation to assessment as an ongoing process that makes use of knowledge about disease processes, medical treatments, individual and group adaptations to loss, risk factors suggestive of maladaptive responses, and family dynamics in relation to crisis and change. Although nurses bring expert knowledge about available treatments and resources, the process of assessment and decision-making about what needs to be done can be best accomplished through a process of contracting with the patient and family. These mutual agreements need to be concerned with the establishment of specific goals, plans for achieving them, available resources within the family, division of responsibility, time limits on the achievement of objectives, and mutual evaluation of the process and the outcomes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Focused research on pain and pain control in children has developed primarily in the last 10 years and even now is woefully inadequate in relation to the magnitude of the problem. The available research, inferences from the adult literature, and anecdotal information all indicate the elusive nature of pain. Pain is not solely a fixed neurophysiologic response to a noxious stimulus but a product of the interaction of many variables such as age, cognitive set, personality, ethnic background, and emotional state. These factors exert a tremendous influence on the suffering which surrounds the pain message. Technology exists at present to eliminate or substantially reduce pain in almost all cases. There remains, however, a tendency, which is even more pronounced with respect to children, to underestimate or ignore pain. In an overall approach to pain in children, the following points should be considered: A high index of suspicion is necessary to determine if children are experiencing pain since they may have difficulty verbalizing their discomfort. In infants, physiologic variables should be considered (increased heart rate, palmar sweating, increased respiratory rate), and in preschoolers, time should be taken to ascertain that the child actually understands the word "pain" if it is used in questioning them. Some method of continuous monitoring, such as a visual analogue scan, should be considered as part of the treatment plan. Adequate analgesia should be provided. The appropriate dose should be administered at the appropriate pharmacokinetic time. Too little medication may cause obsessive attention to medication-related issues. Too much medication may cause sedation and lack of mental clarity, which is often anxiety-producing for both the parents and the child. The usefulness of p.r.n. medication has been seriously questioned and a time-contingent as opposed to pain-contingent strategy should be applied. Fears of addiction are generally unwarranted. Adjunctive medication may increase the value of offered narcotics and counteract some of their side effects. Although this monograph has focused more attention on pharmacologic than on nonpharmacologic approaches to pain, this is merely a reflection of available data and not necessarily of relative importance. The importance of distraction from pain by nursing, medical, or child life personnel using play techniques cannot be overestimated. Every attempt should be made to relax the child by using creative strategies. Preparation of the child for procedures is often helpful as some of the fear of the unknown is eliminated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This article has reviewed clinical and demographic features of the primary anxiety disorders and other psychiatric and medical disorders that often are associated with anxiety symptoms, highlighting differential diagnosis. In summary, phobic disorders (exogenous anxiety) are characterized by anxiety reliably elicited by specific environmental stimuli; the stimuli involved determine which type of phobia is diagnosed. In contrast, panic attacks and generalized anxiety (endogenous anxiety) involve symptoms of anxiety not associated only with specific eliciting stimuli. Panic disorder is differentiated from generalized anxiety disorder by the presence of discrete attacks; both disorders usually have some level of persistent anxiety. Obsessive-compulsive disorder is characterized by recurrent unwanted but irresistible thoughts and the ritualized repetitive acts resulting from these obsessions, in the absence of preexisting psychosis or depression. Finally, posttraumatic stress disorder involves various anxiety (and other) symptoms as a direct result of an obvious stressor. Depressive symptoms are frequently associated with anxiety. It is sometimes impossible to determine which is the primary disorder. Overlap of syndromes probably also occurs with other primary psychiatric disorders, especially somatoform disorders, adjustment disorder with anxious mood, and several personality disorders. Finally, primary anxiety can be confused with several medical syndromes, especially when the medical disorder has not been recognized. Nevertheless, research with patients with pheochromocytoma suggests that medical causes of anxiety may be qualitatively different from primary anxiety disorders, especially the psychic anxiety component. Attention to the clinical and demographic features listed in Table 4, as well as the use of newly-developed structured diagnostic interviews should usually lead to a correct diagnosis, as illustrated by the following examples. The onset of a fear of public speaking in mid-adolescence suggests an uncomplicated social phobia, whereas the onset in the mid-twenties of several social and other situational anxieties in a person with a previous history of panic attacks would be strongly suggestive of the panic-agoraphobia syndrome. The new onset of generalized anxiety symptoms and depression in a 45-year-old patient who has had a previous significant depression would suggest that this person's anxiety is part of, and secondary to, the affective disorder and not a primary anxiety disorder.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This paper focuses on the adaptive capacity of survivors, and, by reframing the psychodynamics of the "survivor syndrome", employing Object Relations theory and Self Psychology, attempts to shed light on the recovery process and the subsequent regressive responses in later life. Historically, an understanding of the survivor syndrome was impeded by the severity and uniqueness of the trauma. Survivors demonstrated symptoms that were not always congruent with the established diagnosis "traumatic neurosis", and conventional psychoanalytic psychotherapy which aimed at lifting the repression of the persecution often failed. Despite reports of "late" physiologic sequelae, recent work has focused on the survivor's capacity to recover. Survival during the persecution entailed maintaining perceptual defences, maintaining an attachment to the world and the objects in it, and despite the fragmenting effect of these two sets of mechanisms, maintaining an integrated sense of self. Three clinical vignettes are presented to demonstrate that during the recovery process a degree of reversal of the survival mechanisms was necessary. This required taking into oneself or acknowledging the anger evoked by the persecution, which, associated with the fragmenting effect of the persecution on the sense of self, often resulted in guilt and self-loathing, and affected the vicissitudes of the survivor's personal story. Often the self-selfobject function required bolstering by particular relationships. The triggers for later regression responses in survivors are events that evoke rage or serve as a symbolic bridge to memories of the persecution, and life changes that generate altered relationships that had served a self-selfobject function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Several authors have stated that induction of labor may have deleterious psychological effects on women's experiences of labor and early mother-infant interaction. Research on this subject is scarce and in most cases no distinction is made between elective induction and induction for medical reasons. For that reason the observed effects may also have been caused by the medical complications that led to the induction. Differences in experience of labor may also be in part explained by differences in personal characteristics between women choosing or rejecting induction of labor. Influences of induction of labor can only be reliably assessed in prospective studies. In the present study of 271 women with an uncomplicated pregnancy, data regarding their experiences of pregnancy and their expectations of labor and motherhood were collected before labor. In 72 women labor was electively induced, and 199 women had a spontaneous onset of labor. Of 33 women, 19 with spontaneous labor and 14 with elective induction, the first contact with their newborn was observed. All women who could be contacted were interviewed about their experience of labor and the first contact with their infant. Six months after delivery the mothers were questioned about the state of health of mother and infant and about nursing the infant. Mothers with induced labor were rated as being generally less emotionally involved in the first contact with their newborn than mothers with spontaneous labor, but the differences were not significant (Fig. 1). The duration of spontaneous labor was longer, but the subjective time experience did not differ between groups. Women with spontaneous labor were more tired during labor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To date therefore, no consistent hormonal abnormality has been linked with premenstrual affective, physical or behavioural changes and, in turn, no consistent adverse behaviour has been positively linked with any particular menstrual cycle phase. At the same time, the proportion of actively menstruating women reported to identify premenstrual changes of a severity sufficient to warrant the illness label continues to fall so that a figure somewhere between 2 and 8% seems to be established where once figures in excess of 70% were claimed. The implication would seem to be that more thorough assessment of the relatively small number of women who are clearly identifiable as sufferers from cyclically-mediated symptoms might well cast light on possible hormonal-behavioural links where larger, less careful studies of heterogeneous samples of women have failed to do so. The great majority of women appear to negotiate the premenstrual phase of their menstrual cycles with little or no impairment or difficulty. A small number appear to be vulnerable and the possibility that it is, at least in part, a biological vulnerability is hinted at in those reports which tentatively suggest that some women who are especially prone to post-partum 'blues' and who are particularly sensitive to oral contraceptives may be especially prone to premenstrual tension. Finally, the ubiquity of premenstrually perceived 'changes' as distinct from 'symptoms' raises the possibility that the extent to which a woman experiences various premenstrual changes as complaint or illness may depend 'more on her basic personality and the circumstances in which she experiences the cyclical changes than on the underlying cyclical mechanism'.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Primigravida women are faced with the decision about how they will feed their infants. Many will decide to breastfeed but the motivation for this choice is unclear. While certain beliefs and worries about breastfeeding appear to predict women who will choose to breastfeed, such concepts are influenced by a combination of other values, support resources and socioeconomic background. The main goal of this research was to demonstrate how multivariate analysis can be applied to the infant-feeding decision and how it can lend a theoretical interpretation to social issues such as the initiation of breastfeeding. One hundred completely breastfeeding and 57 bottle feeding primigravida women were enrolled in the study and completed a pretested Likert-type questionnaire. Three primary predictors for the initiation of breastfeeding were identified: positive maternal beliefs about breastfeeding; the absence of maternal worries about breastfeeding; and higher levels of maternal education. Secondary psychosocial predictors significantly associated with maternal breastfeeding beliefs included maternal beliefs in increased personal satisfaction from breastfeeding and maternal beliefs in preventive health measures. Secondary psychosocial predictors significantly related to maternal worries about breastfeeding before breastfeeding began. Over half of the strength of the direct psychosocial predictors for breastfeeding initiation could be attributed to their respective groups of indirect predictors. Thus, the main contribution of this research has been to shift the emphasis of past research away from differences between groups of bottle feeders and breastfeeders to focus more precisely on the decision-making process involved in the infant feeding choice.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A slide projection test was applied to investigate the ability of children to recognize faces and vases. Boys and girls between age 7 and 16 years were investigated. During the inspection series the subjects had to judge 42 black and white photographs of 14 male faces, 14 female faces and 14 vases. One hour after the inspection series a two-choice recognition test (6-s presentation) was performed and 1 week later the second recognition test. (1) During the inspection series the subjects had to make 42 forced-choice decisions as to whether they liked or disliked the projected face or vase. The number of positive responses for vases was in all age groups significantly higher than for faces. For both items positive response scores decreased with age. (2) In all age groups recognition and recall after 1 h was better for faces than for vases. For both items the 7- and 8-year-old children had a significantly higher error score than the other age groups. Boys reached adult performance levels at 9-10 years of age. Under age 15 to 16 years, male subjects had a significantly better face recognition ability than female subjects. This is in contrast to the repeatedly found adult female superiority in face recognition. The sex of the faces and the emotional responses during the inspection series were found to have a slight influence on face recognition. (3) Correct item recognition decreased after 1 week for those items (faces and vases) seen in the inspection series only and not in the first test after 1 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

These experiments assessed the influence of two variables, age of subjects and time of drug administration, on the reinforcing properties of amphetamine and of diazepam in normal volunteers. Three groups of subjects were tested: i) a group of 40-55-year-old subjects (AGE group; N = 11) who were tested in the morning, ii) a group of 21-35-year-old subjects (CTL group; N = 12) who were also tested in the morning, and iii) a group of 21-35-year-olds who were tested in the late afternoon (AFT group; N = 13). All subjects participated in three separate experiments comparing one drug (5 mg d,l-amphetamine, 5 mg diazepam or 10 mg diazepam) to placebo. Each experiment consisted of nine sessions: On the first four sessions subjects sampled two color-coded capsules on alternate sessions and on the following five sessions they chose and ingested the capsule they preferred. Subjective effects of the drugs were monitored using the Profile of Mood States (POMS) and a shortened version of the Addiction Research Center Inventory (ARCI). Subjects in all three groups chose 5 mg diazepam as often as placebo but preferred placebo to 10 mg diazepam. In contrast, they chose amphetamine either as often as or more often than placebo. The subjective effects of diazepam (i.e. sedation) were similar across all three groups, but after amphetamine the AGE group showed greater stimulant effects. In addition, the AFT group showed fewer positive mood effects after amphetamine than the CTL group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Depression is a major complication of cancer. The efficacy and safety of mianserin were evaluated in a randomized placebo-controlled trial of 73 depressed women with cancer. According to RDC diagnosis, all patients showed situational major depression. Both groups were well matched for cancer localization, clinical stages, Karnofsky scores, duration of depression, baseline values on the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (ZSRDS), and Clinical Global Impression of Illness Severity (CGI-S), and for type of depression, whether dominantly depressive or depressive-anxious. Between days 7-21, there were significantly fewer dropouts with mianserin (7) than with placebo (15). When compared with placebo, there were significant improvements for mianserin for HDRS on days 7, 21 and 28, for ZSRDS on days 7 and 28, and for CGI-S on days 7, 14, 21 and 28. According to Clinical Global Impression of Illness Improvement (CGI-I) there were significantly more responders with mianserin (28) than with placebo (18). The efficacy index for mianserin was significantly greater than for placebo on days 21 and 28. At the end of the trial the scores for HDRS sleep disturbance factor and HDRS anxiety-somatization factor were significantly reduced for mianserin than for placebo. There were no significant differences in side-effects between treatment groups. It is concluded that mianserin is superior to placebo in reducing the severity and duration of depression which is present especially in patients with advanced cancer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

From the data discussed in this review it appears that GABA receptor agonists exhibit a variety of actions in the central nervous system, some of which are therapeutically useful (Table V). GABA receptor agonists, by changing the firing rate of the corresponding neurons accelerate noradrenaline turnover without changes in postsynaptic receptor density and diminish serotonin liberation with an up-regulation of 5HT2 receptors. These effects differ from those of tricyclic antidepressants which primarily block monoamine re-uptake and cause down-regulation of beta-adrenergic and 5HT2 receptors. The GABA receptor agonist progabide has been shown to exert an antidepressant action which is indistinguishable from that of imipramine in patients with major affective disorders. The fact that: (a) GABA receptor agonists and tricyclic antidepressants affect noradrenergic and serotonergic transmission differently; and (b) tricyclic antidepressants alter GABA-related parameters challenges the classical monoamine hypothesis of depression and suggests that GABA-mediated mechanisms play a role in mood disorders. Decreases in cellular excitability produced by GABAergic stimulation leads to control of seizures in practically all animal models of epilepsy. GABA receptor agonists have a wide spectrum as they antagonize not only seizures which are dependent on decreased GABA synaptic activity but also convulsant states which are apparently independent of alterations in GABA-mediated events. These results in animals are confirmed in a wide range of human epileptic syndromes. GABA receptor agonists decrease dopamine turnover in the basal ganglia and antagonize neuroleptic-induced increase in dopamine release. On repeated treatment, progabide prevents or reverses the neuroleptic-induced up-regulation of dopamine receptors in the rat striatum and antagonizes the concomitant supersensitivity to dopaminomimetics. Behaviorally, GABA receptor agonists diminish the stereotypies induced by apomorphine or L-DOPA suggesting that GABAergic stimulation results also in an antidopaminergic action which is exerted beyond the dopamine synapse. These effects of GABA receptor agonists may represent the basis of the antidyskinetic action of these compounds which, however, remains to be fully confirmed. GABA receptor agonists reduce striatal acetylcholine turnover, an effect which occurs at doses much lower than those which affect dopamine neurons. Since hyperactivity of cholinergic neurons plays a determinant role in the pathogenesis of some parkinsonian symptoms, it is conceivable that GABAergic stimulation is effective in ameliorating Parkinson's disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Drugs of abuse have in common the fact that they serve as biological rewards. They presumably do so because of their ability to activate endogenous brain circuitry. By determining the brain circuitry activated by rewarding drug injections, much can be learned about the degree to which there is a common basis for the abuse liability of seemingly different drugs. The brain circuitry activated by two classes of abused drugs, psychomotor stimulants and opiates, is now partially understood; the current evidence suggests a shared mechanism of stimulant reward and opiate reward. The identified portion of the circuitry involves dopamine-containing cells of the ventral tegmental area and their fiber projections to the cells of the nucleus accumbens. Morphine activates these cells in the region of the cell bodies; it may have direct actions on receptors imbedded in the dopaminergic cell membrane, or it may act on afferent terminals that synapse on the dopaminergic cell bodies or dendrites. Cocaine and amphetamine act at the terminals of the dopaminergic fibers to nucleus accumbens and perhaps other structures. The shared activation of the dopaminergic input to nucleus accumbens accounts for the behaviorally activating and the rewarding effects of both stimulants and opiates (the opiate stimulant action is not widely known because it is usually masked by depressant actions of opiates in other, antagonistic, brain circuits). The activation of dopaminergic systems also accounts for amphetamine euphoria; it almost certainly accounts for cocaine euphoria and it probably accounts for opiate euphoria as well. Opiates and psychomotor stimulants clearly have many other actions which are not shared; nonshared actions must account for the well-known differences in the subjective effects of opiates and stimulants. One of the major nonshared actions is physical dependence. Opiates gain access to a major component of the circuitry mediating opiate physical dependence through opiate receptors in the periaqueductal gray matter. This receptor population is anatomically distinct from the population mediating the rewarding effects of opiates in nondependent animals. While both opiates and stimulants can activate (though by quite different mechanisms and at quite different loci) the dopaminergic circuitry underlying reward phenomena, only opiates activate the separate circuitry underlying dependence phenomena.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The realization that existence is a process, a 'becoming', helps to avoid the temptation to see man as a collection of 'mechanisms' which, when faulty, can be overhauled or dismantled. Therapy takes place in a present which contains the past and is directed towards a future. Undue preoccupation with the past and the neglect of present phenomena and future possibilities tend to restrict the understanding of the problem as it 'presents' itself. Man is able to choose, within the limits of his/her conditions, and has responsibility for this choice. The possibility of change is closely bound up with that of choice, and change is at the very heart of therapy. But to choose makes us feel anxious, and not to choose makes us feel guilty. An existential approach needs to introduce the concepts of existential anxiety and guilt, as distinct from their neurotic counterparts. If it is accepted that all experience is interrelated, the examination of isolated events will prove limited and even misleading. Particularly, the existential assumption of interrelatedness will sharpen the psychotherapist's awareness of the fact that s/he can never be an 'objective' observer, that (whatever his/her method) there is a living relationship between therapist and patient in which influence and change are mutual.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In a previous publication, we presented evidence of slowed conduction speed in the central nervous systems of insulin-dependent diabetic subjects, manifest in a delay in the latency of the brainstem auditory-evoked response (BAER). In this article, we present the results of a multivariate study conducted on a larger sample of 50 insulin-dependent, adult diabetic subjects. The purpose of the study was to determine some of the functional correlates of the BAER delay; each patient received an assessment of the BAER, the late auditory-evoked potential (EP), the conduction velocities of the sural, median, and common peroneal nerves, and intellectual and emotional function, in addition to neurologic and audiologic examinations. A nondiabetic control group was matched with the diabetic group as to age and sex. The results indicated a delay in the latency of wave V, and in interpeak latencies I-III and I-V, of the BAER. The most reliable effect was on interpeak latency I-V; this suggested that the locus of the delay was in the central auditory projections, rather than in the acoustic nerve. In addition, BAER waves I, II, III, IV, and V were reduced in amplitude, as was the N1 component of the late auditory EP; the most reliable reduction in amplitude was in wave V. The effect was similar in magnitude for males and females, relative to their counterparts in the control group. The slowed BAER response appeared early in the disease and was not related to the duration of insulin treatment. It was correlated with a chronic loss of energy and the presence of sexual dysfunction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A small number of selected (rather than randomly picked) women of three age groups was extensively sampled in two geographic locations. Data on twelve of the plasma hormones in addition to those on some systemic variables, including blood pressure (BP), determined around the clock and along the calendar were here analyzed further. The risk of developing certain diseases was assessed by epidemiologically designed questionnaires. The risk of cerebro-, reno-, cardiovascular disease was here approached by focus upon the risk of developing a high rhythm-adjusted mean (mesor) of BP. The risk of mesor-hypertension (RMH) for a selected group of young adult women was inversely correlated with the circannual amplitude (a measure of the extent of predictable since rhythmic change along the scale of a year) and the circannual mesor of plasma aldosterone. These indices are costly in several ways since it takes at least a year and quite a few samples to estimate them reliably. In the attempt to reduce sampling requirements to one or at most two plasma samples, a chronobiologic pattern discrimination analysis was undertaken on the original data from the subgroup of young adult women. Data were normalized by the sample standard deviation of each variable and processed according to proximity (so-called nearest neighbor) rules, for dimension reduction and classification. For each variable, each subject's samples were classified by reference to those of all others. The results objectively identify certain variables for further testing on larger, properly stratified and randomized cohorts followed preferably for a life-time and also illustrate the computer method of pattern discrimination used. Pattern discrimination not only singles out plasma aldosterone as the primary classifier for RMH, but shows further the circannual- and circadian-stage dependence of the classification. The clock-hour for optimal classification of RMH by aldosterone and by hormonal co-classifiers changes with the season. Furthermore, the relation between the circadian mesor of aldosterone concentration and RMH is an inverse one in summer, fall and winter, but a direct one in spring. A validated inverse relation to RMH of the circannual amplitude and mesor as well as any added differences in acrophase or waveform of aldosterone as a function of circannual stage all contribute to the change in sign of the relationship between aldosterone and RMH observed in spring. The latter change renders mandatory the specification as to clock-hour and season of any spot-check for risk assessment, whether it is based upon single or multiple samples.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Proponents of the surface stimulation treatment of idiopathic scoliosis have reported approximately 75-85% success rates in arresting progressive curvatures. Although encouraging, these results do not appear to be better than those of the more traditional brace programs. Now recognizing electrical stimulation as a viable alternative to bracing, supporters have advocated the psychologic and physical freedom with electrical stimulation as a major advantage over brace treatment. However, to date, there have been no objective psychologic studies to substantiate these claims. This prospective study was devised to detect any significant differences between a group of patients treated in a TLSO or Milwaukee brace and a group of patients treated with lateral electrical surface stimulation (LESS) (ScoliTron). The study consisted of 40 female private patients with idiopathic scoliosis treated for a minimum of 3 months. Each patient was given a set of seven standardized psychologic tests and an observer rating by the treating physician or physical therapist working with the patient. Results of the Psychological Epidemiology Research Interview (PERI) revealed that the LESS group had significantly higher self esteem than the brace group. The brace patients demonstrated a much greater perception of directed hostility than the LESS group. The coping response inventory showed the brace group to manifest a more primitive coping mechanism than the LESS group. The brace group attempted to avoid problems associated with their disease, rather than cope with them as the LESS group was better able to do. The brace group focused more on their emotions than the realistic problems of their disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The subsequent misuse and abuse of sedatives and hypnotics prescribed to 190 patients of the family practice program at the Medical University of South Carolina was investigated by medical record abstract and patient interviews. Results indicated little misuse and no abuse, with most respondents indicating they took fewer doses than directed. Concerns about dependence were widespread and were most likely in patients who said they never took fewer doses than directed. These patients were also more likely to have side effects. Ten percent of respondents said they had shared their sedative or hypnotic with others, usually relatives. Because of the nature of the population, mostly female and with an average age of 50 years, the results are likely to underrepresent misuse and abuse and to overrepresent concerns with dependence as compared with the general patient population. The results indicate the need for a prospective study to determine the process of becoming a misuser and factors associated with dependency fears.

Racism is not just an added stress to individuals of minority ethnic groups (identified as racial groups) but is a pathogen which generates depression. In analysing this within a social model of depression indicating a few ways in which racism subtly - and not so subtly - affects self esteem, causes losses in a psychological sense, and promotes a sense of helplessness (Table 2) I have indicated ways in which this perspective should influence treatment. A more complex scheme summarising the matters raised in this paper are given in Table 3. It should be acknowledged that in depression (as in any other psychiatric illness), the patient is implicated in the genesis of the condition one way or another, but the emphasis given in this paper to a "victim" approach is deliberate and necessary. In dealing with depression among people who are victims of social condition be it racism or the unemployment it is all too easy to see the individual as the problem. We then see solutions merely in terms of changing or treating the individual and really get into quite a mess. For example the author was recently talking to a G.P. about a man who had become depressed because of unemployment. The G.P. wanted to give him an antidepressant. Yes X is "good for unemployment" he was told. He did not see the joke. The emphasis had already shifted. Even if we recognise the effects of racism in causing identity crises, low self esteem or a sense of helplessness, we must of course help the individual but we must keep reminding ourselves that the problem is not really the low self esteem or whatever, but the racism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There is speculation that women receive different medical care than men because physicians have stereotyped views about women's symptoms and treatment preferences. This paper asks if men and women who visit physicians for mental distress receive comparable medical care and, if not, whether medical considerations or psychosocial ones explain the differences. Data are from a large national survey of ambulatory care visits in the United States. We find that women and men are equally likely to report mental distress as their main problem to physicians. Physicians determine that distressed men have mental disorders more often than distressed women. On the whole, distressed men and women receive similar numbers of diagnostic services, therapeutic services and dispositions for follow-up care. The kinds of services and dispositions differ a little: women tend to receive limited examinations, blood pressure checks and drug prescriptions more often; men are more likely to have general examinations, medical counseling or no service at all. Women are retained for follow-up care with the same physician more often; men tend to be sent elsewhere for additional care or no follow-up plans at all are made for them. Sex differences in care are statistically small (only 6% of the many comparisons are significant at P less than 0.05). But the significant differences highlight two points: when differential care occurs, it is in non psychiatrists' offices and it usually shows women receiving more of a given service or disposition. Differential care for women and men can be due to medical factors (such as patient age, prior visit status, seriousness of problem) or psychosocial ones (such as patient requests, patient emotionality, physician sex bias).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A study was carried out to elucidate whether the improved compliance associated with the provision of verbal and written information about a prescribed drug is due to the specific information or to a non-specific attention-placebo effect. 120 depressed outpatients were prescribed dothiepin and randomly allocated to one of three groups: Group A were given verbal and written information about side-effects; Group B were given verbal and written information about beneficial effects; Group C were told only that the drug was being given to treat their depression and received no written information. Compliance with medication was assessed at 3 weeks and 6 weeks by interrogation and by pill count. At the same time, side-effects were enquired for and their occurrence or non-occurrence noted. No significant differences were found between the groups in the rates of compliance at either 3 weeks or 6 weeks. When Groups A and B were combined to give a total 'information' group and compared with Group C--the 'no-information' group--the rate of compliance at 3 weeks was significantly higher (P less than 0.05) in the 'information' group. No significant differences were found between the groups in the rates of reported side-effects at either 3 weeks or 6 weeks. When Groups A and C were combined and compared with Group B (information about beneficial effects), side-effects were found to be reported significantly less frequently (P less than 0.05) in the latter at 6 weeks. Of 175 compliance estimates, 97.7% gave concordant results for estimation by interrogation and by pill count.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Our data are based on retrospective self-reported answers of college students. To what extent do these answers accurately reflect the feelings of an actual clinical sample of dental patients? Although there is little direct evidence, a number of observations suggest that in the area of dental anxiety, college populations closely approximate the self-reported answers of the general population. The average level of dental anxiety in an actual clinical sample also appears to be remarkably similar to the average level of dental anxiety among a sample of college students. Kleinknecht and Bernstein found that, on a 1 to 5 scale, dental patients reported a mean level of dental anxiety of 2.31, and that when the identical question was used in a college population, the average level of dental anxiety was 2.47. In our sample, the mean level of dental anxiety was a similar 2.4 on a 0 to 6 scale. Obviously, self-reported answers are subject to distortions. However, it is important that these perceptions can still have a powerful bearing on the behaviors and feelings of patients. A number of observations and hypotheses about the historical origins of dental anxiety were confirmed. Some of these findings have direct clinical implications for the prevention of dental anxiety by dentists or treatment by psychologists. For example, high dentally anxious subjects are more concerned with and feel more ashamed about telling their dentist that they are dentally anxious. It may be helpful for dentists to provide an open forum about the patient's concern.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Recent data have generally been consistent with our pilot findings: a significant proportion--33 to 40%--of opiate-dependent patients show a time-linked decrease in skin-temperature in response to standard drug-related stimuli, suggestive of conditioned withdrawal. Patients' physiological changes are often accompanied by subjective craving and withdrawal, but the correlation among these measures is modest. Though craving seems to diminish with repeated exposure to drug-related stimuli, withdrawal-like symptoms are often persistent and slow to extinguish. Our current design initially assumed that most patients would show conditioned craving and withdrawal to our standard stimuli and that our current procedure would be adequate to produce complete extinction for these "responders.' As it turned out, not all patients respond to our standard stimuli, and our extinction procedure is not completely effective for those who do. Given these two findings, our current design does not permit the best test of the potential clinical benefits of extinction. Our rich experience during the first phase of this project has stimulated several procedural changes which should increase our accuracy in determining the incidence of these conditioned phenomena, our effectiveness in extinguishing them, and permit a better assessment of their potential clinical benefit. These are as follows: Individualize eliciting (drug-related) stimuli--We initially chose to use standard (the same for all patients) stimuli for practical and experimental reasons. However, their use may have resulted in an underestimate of the incidence of conditioned craving and withdrawal, and in less relevant extinction for many patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The preceding review of the literature on pediatric asthma death encompasses a broad range of emotional and psychological variables, some of which may ultimately prove to be meaningfully related to asthma death in childhood. However, the essential question of the role of psychological factors in pediatric asthma death remains unanswered. This area of investigation is still in its earliest stages, having relied heavily to date on retrospection, anecdotal recordings, and theoretical speculation. Additionally, conceptualization of the problem has been impeded not only by the remaining medical mysteries of asthma, but by considerable overlap among the psychological constructs considered, and a lack of clarity and confirming evidence about the physiological and/or behavioral mechanisms which would mediate the influence of proposed psychological factors on the course of the disease. As has been common in the history of psychosomatic research, there has been a tendency to search for a unitary underlying psychological factor that would account for asthma death (e.g., anxiety, psychopathology, a symbiotic mother-child relationship, or nebulizer overuse). However, a perusal of the literature casts doubt on the likelihood that a single psychological factor will provide the answers. Rather, serious problems in pediatric asthma management and fatal outcome appear more likely to be the end result of disruptions in the complex interactions and delicate balance among physiological, pharmacological, environmental, and interpersonal factors. The interpersonal milieu itself may represent potentially complicated and dangerous elements as it consists of medical staff, patient, and family members, each with his or her own limitations of intellect, judgment, and capacity to cope with emotional stress and the stress engendered by a chronic, sometimes frustrating, and potentially lethal disease. Nevertheless, the literature offers a variety of features which thus far have been found to characterize at least some cases of pediatric asthma death. There is fairly consistent agreement demographically that children under 5 yr of age and between the ages of 10 and 14 yr are at increased risk, as are nonwhite children. Sex-related differences are less clear. While a standard medical profile of the pediatric asthma patient at high risk for a fatal outcome does not yet exist, a number of "increased risk" indicators have been suggested, including for example, a history of particularly severe asthma, rapid onset attacks, and medical complications.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Maprotiline hydrochloride tablets were given to 266 patients with either a dysthymic disorder or a major depressive disorder. The mean starting dosage was 70.2 mg/day in patients younger than 60 years of age and 68.6 mg/day in those aged 60 years and over. For patients completing at least four weeks of treatment, the mean final dosage was 127.6 mg/day in younger patients and 100.0 mg/day in geriatric patients. Follow-up evaluations of response and adverse effects were made at each of the following intervals after the start of therapy: one week, two to three weeks, four to five weeks, and six weeks or more. Assessment of response was based on the physicians' evaluations of overall improvement and improvement in sleep pattern, anxiety level, mood, and drive. Eighteen patients never returned and were excluded from all assessments. The remaining patients were evaluated for observations recorded within the foregoing time intervals. A rapid onset of action was evident in the fact that 73% of evaluated patients had at least a minimal response after one week of treatment, and after six weeks 76% had achieved moderate or marked improvement in their overall condition. Patients' sleeping patterns showed the most rapid and dramatic response, with 59% of evaluated patients improved after one week and 90% after six weeks of maprotiline. Anxiety decreased in 57% of patients after one week and in 81% after six weeks. Depression was reduced in 46% of evaluated patients after one week and in 86% after six weeks. Forty-one percent of patients exhibited more drive after one week of maprotiline and 78% did so after six weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

There has been a long-standing belief that children and parents require preparation and support in the event of hospitalization. Programs that prepare children for hospitalization are designed to inform the child about what will happen and to familiarize the child with his environment. Although these programs provide only general information, they do impact upon the way a child can cope with specific procedures. Even though it is unclear why information is beneficial, there are reported studies that demonstrate its effectiveness. Information about health care procedures is provided through modelling, procedural, and sensory information, and stress-point nursing. While some of these techniques, as described in the literature, may be too extensive for every nurse to fully carry out with every child, the principles can be incorporated by all nurses. The studies cited give some indication that early preparation is beneficial for older children (7 years old and older), but that younger children benefit from preparation immediately prior to the procedure. Children with a previous hospital experience are thought to respond to information on rehospitalization in a unique way. Furthermore, while children may demonstrate anxiety initially when given certain kinds of information, stress-point nursing (repeated information and support) has been reported to be particularly beneficial. The research findings tend to oppose the notions that young children should not receive information, that all children benefit equally from the same type and timing of preparation, that a child who has had a previous experience requires less preparation, and that a one-time pre-admission program provides adequate preparation. The provision of emotional support and the use of play as a means of helping children cope with procedures is strongly supported in the anecdotal and theoretical literature. However, there are few controlled studies that have specifically analyzed the effects of play programs in pediatric settings. Studies done examining techniques that assist the child in gaining a sense of control suggest that a child can benefit from being helped to gain a sense of mastery over a stressful event. Progressive muscle relaxation and desensitization have been shown to reduce anxiety and discomfort during health care procedures. The effectiveness of these techniques, who can best use them, and when they should be used are questions still to be answered. The varying degrees of methodological rigor in present studies point to a need for further research. One cannot definitively state how closely nursing practice reflects available research findings as outlined in this article.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Homophobia, a term often used to describe hostile reactions to lesbians and gay men, implies a unidimensional construct of attitudes as expressions of irrational fears. This paper argues that a more complex view is needed of the psychology of positive and negative attitudes toward homosexual persons. Based upon a review of previous empirical research, a model is proposed that distinguishes three types of attitudes according to the social psychological function they serve: (1) experiential, categorizing social reality by one's past interactions with homosexual persons; (2) defensive, coping with one's inner conflicts or anxieties by projecting them onto homosexual persons; and (3) symbolic, expressing abstract ideological concepts that are closely linked to one's notion of self and to one's social network and reference groups. Strategies are proposed for changing attitudes serving each of the functions. The importance of distinguishing attitudes toward lesbians from those focused on gay men is also discussed.

Questions relating to communication and metacommunication during two forms of directive psychotherapy (Schultz's autogenous training and hypnosis) are examined. The concept of rigidity and cognitive flexibility with regard to the physician-patient relationship is discussed: abstract-concrete dynamics, abstract generalisation of diagnosis, linguistic egocentricity, stereotypical adaptation to conventional language. Some attention is devoted to Heider's balance theory as the first approach to psychological understanding of the therapeutic relationship. The communicative and metacommunicative process described by the Palo Alto (California) school is discussed. Autogenous psychotherapy and hypnosis extend through the concepts of symmetrical relation and inferior complementarity. The criteria for reaching these objectives are stated, along with the pragmatic methods devised for decoding messages and gaining access to metacommunication. Three clinical cases treated through autogenous training and one with hypnosis are analysed with respect to communication and from the relational standpoint. The patient's messages are decoded, the ambiguity of the communication is detected, and the physician's possible answers are examined at both the technical and the emotive level. It is felt that the correct use of the communicational perspective greatly extends the possibilities of autogenous training and hypnosis. It is not a question of combining relational and autogenous management, but of using the Palo Alto discoveries in the more complete understanding of cases in which psychotherapy is employed.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether the reduced conditioned fear response in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) relative to Wistar-Kyoto controls (WKYs); (a) reflects a decrease in fear in SHRs or an increase in fear in WKYs, relative to other strains; (b) is secondary to strain differences in cardiovascular regulation; (c) represents a weaker conditioned response or a weaker memory trace; and (d) generalizes beyond tests of conditioned fear. SHRs, WKYs and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were subjected to classical fear conditioning (30 trials) involving the pairing of a tone conditioned emotional stimulus (CES: 800 Hz, 82 dB, 10 s) with an electric footshock unconditioned stimulus (US: 1.5 mA, 0.5 s). Cardiovascular responses elicited by the CES (without the US) were assessed through computer assisted techniques in chronically instrumented animals. Conditioned fear behavior was assessed as the proportion of time accounted for by crouching or freezing during a 300 s presentation of the CES without the US. Unconditioned fear reactivity was examined using the open field test. Conditioned fear reactivity (% freezing during 300 s CES) was reduced (P less than 0.01) in SHRs relative to both WKYs and SDs, which did not differ (SHR: 57% +/- 5; WKY 85% +/- 3; SD: 93% +/- 4). Young (7 week) and mature (14 week) animals within each strain differed in resting mean arterial pressure (MAP, in mm Hg) (WKY: young , 102 +/- 1; mature, 133 +/- 2; P less than 0.01; SHR: young, 124 +/- 3; mature, 153 +/- 5; P less than 0.01) but did not differ in conditioned fear reactivity (WKY: young, 91% +/- 3; mature, 93% +/- 3; SHR: young, 47% +/- 3; mature, 62% +/- 8.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Highly abstract thinking is the manifestation of the inner working of mental life, which in the present instance is the creative activity of a theoretical physicist. Events in the 'creative workshop' are traditionally not the focus of psychoanalytic inquiry. The study here begins with a description of the intrapsychic consequences of object loss and mourning and their specific outcome during a period of creative work. Three distinctive events can be considered as direct consequences of mourning: (1) The conceptualization of the 'little wave'. (2) The belief, that the 'little wave' is solely his invention. (3) The assumption made in the preconscious, that the 'little wave' is a stable one. (2) and (3) had turned out to be erroneous and had been corrected by Alpha subsequently. Thereafter the scope of the psychoanalytic inquiry widens to include the cognitive strategies employed by the physicist and their genetic link to the collective alternates in Greenacre's sense. One such cognitive strategy is dealt with, to which the term 'tangled hierarchy' is applied. This considers how thought or knowledge acquired at one level is transferred to another, or vice versa, with the aim of achieving some degree of isomorphy between them. Interactions between events within the realm of object relations and those which take place in the preconscious creative sphere are pointed out. The transitional stages of a creative product bear the mark of the specific features of object relations, conflicts and defences. The final product, however, does not exhibit these same marks.

This study examined the community intervention practice of grouping children on the basis of religious attitudes for analysing community fear responses. The study examined the differences of responses between religious and secular school populations to the Israeli Fear Survey Schedule for Children (IFSSC), an adaptation of the Wolpe and Lang (1964) Fear Survey Schedule. 283 children from secular-trend schools in Israel. 18 of the 99 items of the IFSSC (Klingman & Wiesner, 1982) showed significant differences. The study supported the continuation of the community intervention practice of grouping children on the basis of religious attitude for analyzing IFSSC responses. Religious group affiliation was found to be an influential factor in certain fear responses. The findings point to the need for investigating normative differences among subpopulations with FSS-like instruments. Pre-knowledge and the understanding of the fear level in a community is of great value for emergency-oriented consultation during a crisis. When facing an anxiety-producing situation, the focus of primary as well as early secondary prevention is reaching individuals, as well as groups, of high psychological risk (Caplan, 1964; Klingman & Ben-Eli, 1981; Ollendick & Offman, 1982; Poser & Hartmen, 1979; Shippee, Bradford & Gregory, 1982). The utilization of appropriate classification variables enhances the ability to assess the quality and the degree of reaction to stress within a community.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The purpose of this exploratory study was to investigate the interrelationships between the asthmatic child's dependency behavior, his perception of his illness, and his mother's perception of his illness. The dependency behavior of the asthmatic children was also compared with that of healthy children. The subjects of the study were 57 asthmatic children aged 8 to 12 years and their mothers, and 54 healthy children of the same age and their mothers. The asthmatic children were recruited from (1) patients attending the allergy clinic at a children's hospital in a large metropolitan area of Western Pennsylvania (n = 44) and (2) the private practice of a physician located in the same geographic area (n = 13). The healthy children were recruited from two sources. The majority of them (n = 47) were recruited from the children who visited the medical clinic at the hospital from which the asthmatic children were recruited. These children came to the clinic for physical examination, eye examination, or minor health problems. A few healthy children (n = 7) were recruited from families who were acquainted with the investigator or her friends. Children in both groups were free of physical handicapping conditions, had no history of psychiatric treatment, and were enrolled in at least grade three of an elementary school. The children in the healthy group were free of all chronic illnesses and the asthmatic children did not have any other chronic illness besides asthma. Self-report questionnaires were used to collect data concerning the variables under study. The Self-Administered Dependency Questionnaire (SADQ) and the Children's Autonomy Questionnaire (AUT-MC-3) were used to assess the child's dependency behavior. The children's perceptions of asthma were assessed by the Children's Perception Questionnaire (CPQ). The Mother's Perception Questionnaire (MPQ) was used to measure mothers' perceptions of their children's asthma. Demographic data were obtained from a questionnaire designed for each group of subjects. The data were solicited through two approaches: direct contact with each mother-child pair and by mail. The scores from the SADQ, AUT-MC-3, CPQ and the MPQ were analyzed. The SADQ scores and the AUT-MC-3 scores which measured dependency behavior were used separately in the analysis. The Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient (r) was used to estimate the relationships between the variables under study. The Independent Student t-test was used to determine the differences in dependency behavior of the asthmatic children and healthy children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The pattern of psychopathology in Chinese leukemic children as compared to Chinese children with orthopaedic disorder was studied through analysis of their respective responses to the Children's Apperception Test. Leukemic children were found to exhibit a distinctly different pattern of psychopathology and psychological defenses. Isolation, detachment and denial were commonly used to defend against their insecurity, abstract fears and uncertainties. Themes relating to parental misunderstandings and maltreatment were also elicited. These findings are discussed in relation to the Chinese conception of death as a taboo subject. Recommendations are made for a better psychological management of fatally ill children and their parents.

The purpose of the study is to test the hypothesis of no difference in the adjustment of children with congenital and acquired orthopaedic disabilities. A second aim is to determine the factors which may contribute to any differences in their adjustment. Forty children aged between eleven and sixteen years participated in the investigation. They were divided into congenital and acquired groups according to the development of the handicap. The results revealed that cases of acquired group had lower self-esteem, felt less happy, less autonomous, more anxious and more hypochondriac when compared with cases of the congenital group. The findings of marked differences in adjustment among congenital and acquired defect groups gives no support to the hypothesis. It is found that the congenital group experiences fewer adjustment problems than the comparison group with acquired defects. The impact of a physically handicapped child on a family may be damaging and may sometimes be catastrophic. A few families may be bound more firmly together by the experience, but in several, the stress imposed far outweighs the benefits. The demand that physically handicapped children make on society is also very substantial. Despite the apparent changes in the public's attitudes toward the handicapped, services available are still far short of the ideal. In the Isle of Wight survey (Rutter et al, 1970) dissatisfaction with the services available was expressed up to 80 per cent of the families studied irrespective of the severity of the handicap of the child. Little mention is made of the nature of the handicap itself.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

A view on psychosomatic research is presented, based ona simplified version of general systems theory. Taking into account the difficulties derived from energetic and economic theories of affect, it is suggested that the three main relevant systems in the psychosomatic approach -person, two-persons, and group- could be studied resorting to the distinction between overt and covert behavior. This distinction is based on the position of the observer, which, along with the specification of the system under study and of the relationships between systems, constitutes an integral part of any general theory of behavior. Although the question concerning the usefulness of concrete, abstract and conceptual systems is left open, it is suggested that the system person might be profitably studied as a concrete system, thus granting an unified approach which could be provisorily defined as psychophysiological. Here the term is meant to imply a broad background to behavioral medicine, one of the major tenets being the notion of the information processing paradigm. From this viewpoint, affect is viewed as an aspect of information-processing mechanisms operating in living systems. Although the position outlined is primarily descriptive, it is contended that it might solve the difficulties posed by the "practical dualism" which has pervaded psychosomatic research, and lead as well empirically testable hypotheses related to the mechanisms responsible for psychophysiological dysfunction. From a broad notion of behavioral medicine, discrepancies derived from the use of apparently differing languages in psychosomatic research may be avoided.

This research examined different aspects of the expression of psychometrically designated anxiety proneness related to dimensions of "ego threat" and "novelty ambiguity." In an ego-threatening situation, subjects were presented with abstract-reasoning items whose stress-relevant properties-item difficulty-had earlier been scaled among comparable samples. In the first study, comparisons focused on objective outcomes (records of task failure) as well as appraised outcome records and appraised task effort necessary for adequate performance. In the second study, comparisons emphasized direct physiological and subjective reactions to the stressing situational properties. Results indicate that anxiety proneness is associated with variation in direct reactions to the stressing properties but not with variation in the configuration of the objective or appraised properties themselves. Implications for current concepts on the expression of anxiety proneness and for its psychometric prediction are discussed, as are certain similarities between the present findings and those from research on other sources of individual differences in stress response. Differential sensitivities of alternative indices of stress reaction to variation in anxiety proneness are considered in the light of earlier studies.

Interviews were conducted with 40 women who had amniocentesis between 1973 and 1977. Data were obtained on demographic variables, sources of information, the role of preparation and counseling, attitudes toward abortion, and feelings about the procedure. A major goal of the research was to explain the variation in women's perceptions of the experience. Positive perceptions were significantly correlated with 1) having received counseling, 2) use of the media as a first source of information (rather than a physician), and 3) religious orientation. Each of these factors is related to the availability and use of information. While most of the women perceived themselves to be adequately prepared, they reported negative feelings ranging from mild anxiety to uncontrollable fear. Sufficient information before the procedure lessened anxiety, but the timing and content of this information affected emotional responses. Women who were counseled immediately preceding their amniocentesis had already developed a high level of anxiety which interfered with the absorption of information. A detailed description of the procedure (in addition to the more abstract risks and benefits) and continuing emotional support lessened anxiety and improved the experience for women having amniocentesis.

Several shared symptoms are evident among the subjects described here. First of all, each subject complained of feelings of depression, consistently and frequently. In other words, in each case, the subject described him/herself as "being depressed." The detailed examination of the case notes kept by the counselors who treated these individuals indicates a more specific symptomology associated with their depression. On a more specific level, each of the subjects expressed feelings of worthlessness, hopelessness, despair, and self-destruction. In at least two of the cases, self-destructive feelings were translated into potentially suicidal actions. In addition, each of the three subjects experienced pronounced mood swings. Alternating between periods of deep depression (associated with stagnant or regressive behavior) and periods of relative optimism when at least temporary progress in therapy was evident. During these apparent periods of improvement, the subjects often related major plans of action intended to improve their lot, including new jobs, furthering their education, withdrawing entirely from drug use, patching up marital and family disorder, etc. In each case before these major improvements could be initiated, the subjects would relapse into depressed states and their plans would dissolve like so many fantasies. These cyclical mood swings and their accompanying polar manifestations would seem, superficially, indicative of a type of manic-depressive illness. It should be noted, however, that at no time did any of the subjects undergo thorough psychological testing. Such testing is planned for Subject B, who remains in treatment at this time. Each subject complained of experiencing acute anxiety attacks during his periods of depression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Using curved and angular line drawings, several investigators found a relation between form and meaning in individuals reared before the age of television. In the present study 60 university students who had been exposed to television from earliest childhood were asked to indicate whether a curved or angular figure best represented each of 40 emotion or abstract concepts. For 36 of the concepts the frequencies were significantly different from a chance level, and it was concluded that television viewing had no adverse effect on the fittingness of form and meaning. Several possible explanations for the phenomenon are discussed.

This article deals with relations between "mental motor" evoking capacity ("motority," Putnoky, 1975a, b) and the sensory and affective connotations, as well as certain denotations, of words. Sensory connotation is indexed by degree of visual, auditory, and tactual imagery, as assessed on a 7-point scale, while affective connotation is indexed by the usual three factors tapped by the semantic differential. The aspect of denotation used here is the abstractness value of words, also based on rating by scales. The general conclusions about motority are as follows: (1) the finding that its sensory connotations are mainly via the auditory modality of imagery, and especially in correlation with abstract words, suggests that it has a specific function that may have originated in the processing of heard language; (2) it correlates with the potency and activity factors of affective connation, which suggests the existence of a nonspecific function or component in it; (3) correlations with abstractness reflect that motority must have a denotative function or component, especially in case of abstract verbal stimuli. On the basis of the results, motority is supposed to play a regulative role at higher levels of the organization of word meaning in particular.

Subjects selected on the basis of test anxiety scores made a judgement about each face in a series of slides. These orienting tasks involved either abstract traits (e.g. dependability) or physical features (e.g. weight), and decisions were made relative to either an absolute criterion or self-reference. A subsequent recognition test revealed superior performance by low-anxiety subjects and by subjects who evaluated abstract features during study, but there were no depth by anxiety interactions. The reference point for the decision had little effect overall, but the anxiety deficit was more apparent when the absolute reference point was involved.

The frequency with which patients fail to recall advice presented by their doctors is discribed. The amount forgotten is shown to be a linear function of the amount presented, to be correlated with the patient's medical knowledge, anxiety level and possibly age, but not with intelligence. It is probable that instructions and advice are more often forgotten than other information, and that this is the result of their low perceived importance, and their being presented late in the series of statements presented-there being (a) a primacy effect in recall of medical information, and (b) a tendency for statements perceived as more important to be better recalled. Experiments to control the content and amount of forgetting are described. Control of content can be obtained by use of the primacy and importance effects, while control of amount forgotten can be achieved by use of (a) simpler language, (b) explicit categorization, (c) repetition, and (d) concrete-specific rather than general-abstract advice statements.

Hybrid concepts that combine observable data with abstract metapsychological constructs have increasingly pervaded psychoanalytic discourse in recent years. For example, the "fear of loss of ego boundaries" combines "fear", which may be directly experienced and observed, with "ego boundaries," metapsychological abstraction. The authors regard the widespread use of these concepts, which are most commonly applied to borderline and psychotic conditions, as a trend which may undermine the usefulness of psychoanalytic approaches to these entities.

Through the innovative use of a special set of Holtzman inkblots, several variables of the Personality Research Form were shown to be correlates of the Abstract response for 30 male and 33 female undergraduates. For males, positive correlations were obtained between Abstract and Achievement, Endurance and Sentience; while negative correlations were obtained between Abstract and Harmavoidance and Order, respectively. For females, Abstract was positively correlated with Dominance, Nurturance, Exhibition, and Social Recognition; and negatively correlated with Abasement and Affiliation.

Eighty-five undergraduate males participated in an experiment designed to investigate the impact of various types of erotic stimuli upon aggression. On the basis of previous research, it was hypothesized that exposure to mild erotic stimuli would tend to inhibit subsequent aggression, while exposure to more arousing stimuli of this type would facilitate such behavior. In order to examine this hypothesis, male subjects were first angered or treated in a more neutral manner by a confederate of the experimenter and then provided with an opportunity to aggress against this person by means of electric shock. Before aggressing, participants were exposed to one of five different types of stimuli: nonerotic pictures of furniture, scenery, and abstract art; pictures of seminude females; pictures of nude females; pictures of couples engaged in various acts of lovemaking; or explicit erotic passages. Results offered partial support for the major hypothesis. Exposure to mild erotic stimuli inhibited later aggression, while exposure to more arousing sexual materials neither facilitated nor inhibited such behavior.

Twenty-one patients suffering from major depressive disorder are compared for evidence of thought disorder on admission and at the time of discharge. Two aspects of cognition are evaluated: the ability to abstract, and the quality of association. These aspects of cognition were tested using the Shipley-Hartford, the Raven Progressive Matrices, and the Goldstein-Scheerer Object Sorting Test. Althouh the patients showed some improvement in ability to abstract, and although their associations became somewhat less underinclusive or improverished, these improvements did not achieve statistical significance. Consequently, this group of depressed patients did not appear to show any thought disorder of the type under investigation.

The ability of adult and adolescent psychiatric patients to solve emotional problems such as anxiety and depression as well as problems that arise within the social sphere was examined, as was the question of whether the abilities to solve problems in the emotional and social spheres are related. With IQ partialled out, patients and controls did not differ on emotional problem-solving ability, but did differ on social problem-solving ability. Emotional problem-solving ability was found to be related to intelligence, while social problem-solving ability was not. Emotional problem-solving may require more abstract ability than social problem-solving, and normals may need only social problem-solving for adjustment.

A pattern of cognitive and of affective development characterizing three classes of psychiatric patients is presented: (1) disabled persons, usually unskilled laborers showing a 'somatization reaction', are unable to form abstract categories and, as well, to describe the physiological correlates of 'inner' feelings; (2) psychosomatic patients may show highly developed cognitive skills, although they may not; but they uniformly show a similar inability to 'know' and describe inner feelings; (3) 'neurotic' patients, most dramatically in the phobic category, often show both well-developed cognitive skills and a high degree of sensitivity to, and ability to describe, the symptom complex of anxiety in physiologically relevant forms, with maintenance of meaningful relations with supportive (often 'overprotectively' supportive) family members. These three different states can be diagrammed as follows: (1) -, -; (2) +/-, -; (3) +, +. The suggestion appears that these differences have to do with vulnerability, and that there may be in the general population three separable populations at risk for the development of these three categories of psychiatric disorder. The vulnerability so identified seems to be inversely proportional to 'suitability for interpretative psychotherapy'.

The paper takes a look at the special opportunities which present themselves to patient and psychotherapist in the initial interview. Citing two case examples, the paper suggests that it is possible to have a therapeutic impact and to reach sufficient closure during a single interview with certain types of clinical problems.

In a nonpatient polulation, the concept of mental health was operationally defined both in terms of behavior and of abstract psychological functioning. Ninety-five college sophomores, selected for psychological health, were prospectively followed up for 30 years. They were assessed by independent raters on a scale reflecting objectively defined healthy adult adjustment; on a scale of clinically defined psychiatric illness; and on a scale of maturity of ego defenses. These three scales were highly correlated. It seemed likely that relatively objective items like length of vacation, divorce, heavy use of mood-altering drugs, career dissatisfaction, and visits to medical physicians can--as a cluster--statistically identify the abstract concept of mental health.

