Despite increases in modern contraception use, socioeconomic inequalities in family planning persist. In this study, we aimed to measure progress in reducing socioeconomic inequalities in modern contraceptive prevalence rate (mCPR) and demand for family planning satisfied by modern methods (mDFPS) in 48 countries as part of the Family Planning 2030 (FP2030) initiative between 1990 and 2020 for which Demographic and Health Survey data were available. We analysed two rounds of Demographic and Health Survey data per country. Changes in concentration indices between two survey rounds were compared to measure reductions in overall socioeconomic-related inequalities in modern contraceptive use. Poisson regression models were used to measure the adjusted average annual rate of change across wealth quintiles. In this population-based analysis study, all countries reduced socioeconomic-related inequalities in modern contraceptive use among in-union women of reproductive age (15-49 years) during the observed 30-year period. On average, mCPR increased at an annual rate of 2·1% (95% CI 2·1-2·2), and the rate of increase for the poorest women was 3·1% (3·0-3·2), which outpaced the rate of increase for the richest women of 1·3% (1·3-1·4%). The pattern of progress was similar for mDFPS, but at a slower pace. Overall, levels of mCPR and mDFPS increased, and socioeconomic-related inequalities were reduced during this period. Substantial progress has been made in reducing socioeconomic-related inequalities in family planning across the 48 studied countries, which account for 86% of the population of the 82 FP2030 initiative countries. During the past three decades, poorer women have seen greater improvements in modern contraceptive use and demand satisfaction compared with richer women. As contraceptive prevalence rates are near their maximum, it is crucial to ensure marginalised and vulnerable groups are not left behind. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. For the French and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

The uptake of HIV partner status notification remains limited in low- and lower-middle-income countries. This mixed-methods systematic review aims to summarize the barriers and facilitators of HIV partner status notification in these settings. We searched PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, PsychINFO, Scopus, and Web of Science from January 01, 2000, to August 31, 2023, for empirical qualitative and quantitative studies. Two independent reviewers completed the title, abstract, full-text screening, and data extraction. The risk of bias was assessed using a mixed-methods appraisal tool (MMAT), and the study findings were summarized narratively. Out of the 2094 studies identified, 59 relevant studies were included. Common barriers included fear of stigma and discrimination, violence, abandonment, breach of confidentiality and trust, low HIV-risk perception, and limited knowledge of HIV and HIV testing. Facilitators of HIV partner status notification were feelings of love and closeness in marital relationships, feelings of protecting self and partners, and HIV counseling services. Efforts to improve HIV partner status notification in low- and lower-middle-income countries should consider barriers and facilitators across all its components, including notification, testing, and linkage to treatment. In addition, HIV partner services must be adapted to the unique needs of key populations.

In low-income and middle-income countries, an estimated 181·9 million (74·6%) preschool-aged children do not receive adequate nurturing care in health, nutrition, protection, learning, and responsive care, thus jeopardising their healthy development across the life course. Working alongside the health sector, multisectoral actions including social protection and education are necessary to achieve child health and development outcomes. Innovations are needed to expand access to high-quality early childhood care and education (ECCE) for young children and opportunities for youth development. Youth Leaders for Early Childhood Assuring Children are Prepared for School (LEAPS) is a two-generation programme that trains female youth aged 18-24 years to deliver ECCE. We evaluated the effectiveness of LEAPS to improve children's school readiness when delivered at scale in rural Pakistan. We implemented a stepped-wedge cluster-randomised trial with three steps from Dec 3, 2018, to June 30, 2021. 99 villages (clusters) in four districts in rural Sindh, Pakistan, were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to introduce LEAPS across three steps. Eligible clusters were those that had a feeder primary school run by the National Commission for Human Development, a department of the Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training; were safe; had space for a LEAPS preschool; could identify a female youth to deliver the ECCE service; and had not previously participated in the pilot study. Government partners trained female youth, aged 18-24 years, to provide community-based ECCE, enrolling up to 20 children, aged 3·5-5·0 years, per class. Population-based cross-sectional surveys were conducted at baseline and after each step for children who were eligible if they resided in the cluster, were aged 4·5-5·5 years at the time of the survey, and without any severe clinical health conditions or disability. The primary outcome was children's school readiness using the International Development and Early Learning Assessment (IDELA) composite score comprising emergent numeracy, emergent literacy, socio-emotional development, and motor skills. An intention-to-treat analysis was conducted, using linear mixed models accounting for clustering and the stepped-wedge design. The trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03764436). LEAPS was implemented in 91 of 99 villages. In eight clusters, a LEAPS preschool could not be set up. For the intervention programme, the average enrolment of children in a LEAPS preschool was 19 (SD 3, range 12-20). A total of 3858 children (n=3852 with complete IDELA data) were assessed across the four survey rounds conducted between Jan 1, 2019, and March 31, 2021. LEAPS increased school readiness (standardised mean difference: 0·30 [95% CI 0·20-0·40]; p<0·0001) as compared with the control condition. LEAPS offers a scalable solution to expand access to high-quality ECCE and promote children's school readiness while providing employment for female youth in rural Pakistan and settings with similarly low ECCE participation. Dubai Cares; and Saving Brains, Grand Challenges Canada. For the Urdu translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Informal caregivers are essential in supporting end-of-life patients at home but are often ill-prepared for the carer role. There is growing interest in the development of tools to assess caregiver support needs and a recognised need for a greater focus on addressing inequities in end-of-life care. We plan to undertake a scoping review of available literature to (1) identify and describe tools developed to assess the support needs of informal caregivers in end-of-life care; (2) report on any inequities and under-represented groups in tool development and use. The review will conform to best practice methodological guidance (Joanna Briggs Institute) for scoping reviews. The search strategy will target published and unpublished studies using any methodology, which reports on developing or using tools or measures to assess informal carer support needs in end-of-life/palliative care settings. The following databases will be searched: MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Web of Science, ASSIA and Proquest. Both title/abstract screening and full-text assessment will be undertaken to ensure eligibility. Searches will be conducted between May and December 2024. We will extract data relating to (1) tools/measures identified, and outcome measures used to assess these; (2) participant characteristics. Extracted data will be tabulated with accompanying narrative description to address the review objectives. Data will be extracted and write-up will be completed between January and May 2025. This scoping review will provide an overview of the tools developed to identify and assess informal caregiver support needs in palliative and end-of-life care. The identification of any inequities will increase awareness of potentially underserved groups and contexts within the current literature, highlighting how future research and resource can be more equitably focused and implemented in a way that does not further embed disparity. Findings will be made publicly available through the Open Science Framework and disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication. As a scoping review of available literature, this work does not require ethical approval.

Suicide remains a public health priority worldwide with over 700,000 deaths annually, ranking as a leading cause of death among young adults. Traditional research methodologies have often fallen short in capturing the multifaceted nature of suicide, focusing on isolated risk factors rather than the complex interplay of individual, social, and environmental influences. Recognizing these limitations, there is a growing recognition of the value of dynamic simulation modeling to inform suicide prevention planning. This systematic review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of existing dynamic models of population-level suicide and suicide-related behaviors, and to summarize their methodologies, applications, and outcomes. Eight databases were searched, including MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, Scopus, Compendex, ACM Digital Library, IEEE Xplore, and medRxiv, from inception to July 2023. We developed a search strategy in consultation with a research librarian. Two reviewers independently conducted the title and abstract and full-text screenings including studies using dynamic modeling methods (eg, System Dynamics and agent-based modeling) for suicide or suicide-related behaviors at the population level, and excluding studies on microbiology, bioinformatics, pharmacology, nondynamic modeling methods, and nonprimary modeling reports (eg, editorials and reviews). Reviewers extracted the data using a standardized form and assessed the quality of reporting using the STRESS (Strengthening the Reporting of Empirical Simulation Studies) guidelines. A narrative synthesis was conducted for the included studies. The search identified 1574 studies, with 22 studies meeting the inclusion criteria, including 15 System Dynamics models, 6 agent-based models, and 1 microsimulation model. The studies primarily targeted populations in Australia and the United States, with some focusing on hypothetical scenarios. The models addressed various interventions ranging from specific clinical and health service interventions, such as mental health service capacity increases, to broader social determinants, including employment programs and reduction in access to means of suicide. The studies demonstrated the utility of dynamic models in identifying the synergistic effects of combined interventions and understanding the temporal dynamics of intervention impacts. Dynamic modeling of suicide and suicide-related behaviors, though still an emerging area, is expanding rapidly, adapting to a range of questions, settings, and contexts. While the quality of reporting was overall adequate, some studies lacked detailed reporting on model transparency and reproducibility. This review highlights the potential of dynamic modeling as a tool to support decision-making and to further our understanding of the complex dynamics of suicide and its related behaviors. PROSPERO CRD42022346617; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=346617.

End-of-life care supports individuals in the last few weeks or months of their life and their caregivers, offering psychosocial support, symptom management and relief, and resources. While some of the first public end-of-life care facilities were established due to HIV/AIDS, the current needs of caregivers for people living with end-stage HIV are not well understood. Caregivers provide two-thirds of the care for people living with HIV, yet their specific support needs and experiences are under-researched. Existing strategies often use a "one-size-fits-all" approach, which may not address the unique challenges faced by these caregivers, such as stigma and lack of social support. This study aims to synthesize the literature on the end-of-life care experiences and needs of caregivers for individuals living with HIV. A scoping review, guided by Arksey and O'Malley's framework and the Joanna Briggs Institute's recommendations, will be conducted. An Information Specialist will assist in developing a search strategy to be applied across databases like Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, and PubMed. Search results from each database will be imported into Covidence software for duplicate removal and title and abstract screening. Two researchers will independently screen studies using the 'Population-Concept-Context' (PCC) framework, with screening conducted at two levels: title and abstract, and full-text. The inclusion criteria will be piloted on a random sample of articles to ensure inter-rater agreement (kappa statistic >0.61). Disagreements will be resolved through discussion or with the involvement of a content expert if needed. Final selections will be reported using the PRISMA flow diagram, and reasons for exclusion will be documented. The findings from this scoping review will provide valuable insights into the end-of-life care experiences and support needs of caregivers for individuals living with HIV. By identifying common themes and challenges, such as caregiver fatigue, emotional strain, stigma, and lack of social support, this study will underscore the inadequacy of the current "one-size-fits-all" approach in addressing the unique needs of these caregivers. This research has the potential to influence both clinical practice and policy by advocating for more personalized support strategies within end-of-life care settings.

Survivors of intimate partner violence (IPV) often face increased incidents of violence during stressful life events (SLEs) such as economic recessions, environmental disasters, and pandemics. These events can diminish the effectiveness of both formal (e.g., health, social, justice, labor, community) and informal (e.g., friends, family, neighbors) support systems. Additionally, SLEs exacerbate existing health and social inequities, making it necessary to understand the accessibility of support services during these times. This scoping review investigates access to services by individuals experiencing IPV during SLEs in high-income countries. A comprehensive search was conducted across several electronic databases including MEDLINE (OVID), Embase (OVID), PsychInfo (OVID), CINAHL (EBSCO), Global Health (EBSCO), Gender Watch (ProQuest), Web of Science, and Applied Social Sciences Index & Abstracts (ProQuest), along with the search engine Google Scholar. This search, which imposed no date restrictions, was extended through May 22nd, 2024. Key search terms were developed from prior literature and in consultation with an expert librarian, focusing on 'stressful life events,' 'intimate partner violence,' and 'access to services.'. Each study was screened and extracted by two reviewers and conflicts were resolved through discussion or a third reviewer. The search across eight databases and citation searching resulted in a total of 7396 potentially relevant articles. After removing 1968 duplicates and screening 5428 based on titles and abstracts, 200 articles underwent full abstract review. Ultimately, 74 articles satisfied the inclusion criteria and were selected for further analysis. The analysis focused on barriers and facilitators to access, identifying challenges within Survivors' support systems, redirected resources during crises, and complex control dynamics and marginalization. Over 90% of the literature included covered the recent COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing these challenges requires innovative strategies, sustained funding, and targeted interventions for high-risk subgroups. This scoping review systematically outlined the challenges and enabling factors influencing the availability of support services for Survivors of IPV during SLEs. It underscores the need for robust, culturally sensitive health and social support mechanisms, and policies. Such measures are essential to better protect and assist IPV Survivors and their service providers during these critical times. Furthermore, it is imperative to integrate the insights and expertise of the violence against women (VAW) sector into emergency planning and policy-making to ensure comprehensive and effective responses that address the unique needs of Survivors in crises.

Socio-economic status is associated with self-harm at the individual and area level. In Canada, there is limited evidence on the relationship between area-level markers of socio-economic status and self-harm. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of small area-level material and social deprivation on rates of hospitalization due to self-harm. Administrative data on hospitalizations from two databases in Canada (Discharge Abstract Database and Ontario Mental Health Reporting System) for the period April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2022, were analyzed. Rates of self-harm hospitalization and percentage of repeated admissions were estimated across quintiles of material and social deprivation. Rate ratios were computed to evaluate disparities. The rates were stratified by sex and age group; the percentage of repeated admissions were stratified by sex. In total, the study included 109,398 hospitalizations due to self-harm. Populations in more deprived areas had higher rates of self-harm hospitalizations than those in less deprived areas. The rate ratios for people who lived in the most deprived areas over the least deprived areas were 1.48 (95% CI: 1.38-1.58) and 1.71 (95% CI: 1.60-1.82) for material and social deprivation, separately. The largest disparity was among people aged 25-44 years for material and 45-64 years for social deprivation. Percentages of repeated self-harm hospitalizations were significantly higher in more deprived areas compared to less deprived areas for social deprivation, and among males but not females for material deprivation. Both material and social deprivation were associated with self-harm hospitalization and repeated admissions; the disparity varied by subgroup and the deprivation components. This study demonstrated a need to consider interventions at the neighbourhood level and address both community and population-level conditions of social and material need.

Randomised trials for the management of drug-resistant infections are challenging to conduct as target patient populations often lack decision-making capacity, and enrolment windows are typically short. Improving informed consent and risk communication in these trials is especially crucial for protecting patient interests and maximising trial efficiency. This study aimed to understand challenges in risk communication and informed consent in antimicrobial clinical trials. Scoping review. Searches were conducted in Embase, Medline, CINAHL and Web of Science Core for peer-reviewed English articles that were published from January 2000 to April 2023. Included articles were empirical studies or expert opinions that sought experts', patients' or representatives' opinions on informed consent in the context of clinical trials involving antibiotic/anti-infective agents. Abstract screening, full-text review, data extraction and evidence rating were performed by two independent reviewers. Extracted data were summarised and reported qualitatively based on common themes. A total of 2330 records were retrieved, and 29 articles were included in the review. Half of the articles involving medical experts and one-third involving patients and representatives reported that full comprehension by patients and representatives was challenging or not achievable. Healthcare providers and consent takers were crucial for the quality of informed consent. The level of trust consent givers placed on healthcare providers had a critical influence on the consent rate. Emotional distress was pervasive among patients/representatives. The findings indicate that strengthening consent takers' communication skills in providing emotional support to patients and their representatives may improve informed consent. More research is needed to understand informed consent in low-income and middle-income and non-English-speaking countries.

Efforts to improve access to essential medicines globally include the implementation and assessment of national medicine policies. Although existing assessment tools may identify gaps, they do not link these to health system functions and policy priority areas in a way that facilitates decision-making. This systematic review aims to identify and map out existing indicators assessing essential medicines policies; assess their strengths and limitations and understand the parameters required to develop a new instrument for assessing access to medicines in a way that better supports decision makers in identifying and addressing the gaps in their national medicine policies. This systematic review is guided by the updated Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocol. Eligible studies will be identified across scholarly databases (MEDLINE, Embase and Scopus) and grey literature using relevant subject headings and text words. Title, abstract screening and full-text screening will be conducted by two independent reviewers. Indicators or assessment tools focused on the performance of national medicine policies with respect to improving access to essential medicines will be eligible. Data will be extracted using a pretested data abstraction form. Findings will be reported in the form of a descriptive narrative. This study will provide insights into the relevance of existing indicators and tools for assessing access to essential medicines policies. This review will also discuss the opportunities for the development of a new instrument for the assessment of national medicines policies in a way that better supports decision makers to improve access to essential medicines. This systematic review does not require ethics approval as it only aims to synthesise evidence from the literature. Findings will be disseminated to key health stakeholders including researchers and global and public health organisations and published in a peer-review journal. This protocol has been registered on PROSPERO (CRD42023493052).

Bisphenol A (BPA) is one of the highest-volume chemicals produced worldwide, and human exposure to BPA is thought to be ubiquitous. Stricter regulations around the use of BPA have led many manufacturers to switch to other bisphenol chemicals with similar functions such as bisphenol S and F. Even though exposure to BPA, other bisphenol chemicals and bisphenol alternatives poses a health risk for humans, very little is known about the granular exposure levels of different populations around the world. This systematic evidence map (SEM) will identify human studies reporting concentrations of bisphenols and their alternatives measured in human bio-samples with the aim to chart the global human exposure levels by country and population characteristics to identify research gaps and discuss any social and environmental injustice implications. MEDLINE®, Embase and Web of Science (WoS) databases as well as grey literature sources will be searched using predefined search strings. The database search results will be supplemented by backward and forward citation tracking on included studies. A scoping exercise conducted during planning identified 90 bisphenol chemicals and alternatives used in plastics. These include BPA, other bisphenol chemicals with/without similar functions to BPA as well as alternatives with similar functions to bisphenol chemicals. Eligible studies must measure concentrations of at least one relevant bisphenol chemical/alternative in human bio-samples. Only primary studies published in English since 2010 will be considered. The title, abstract and keywords will be screened by the DistillerAI tool and two independent reviewers. Grey literature will be screened by two reviewers for inclusion and exclusion. The full text of the included studies will then be screened by two independent reviewers. Study quality will not be evaluated in this SEM. Data extraction and coding will be performed by two independent reviewers. Parameters of interest will include the following: study characteristics (e.g., year of publication, sampling timepoints and study design), population information (e.g., country, age, sex, ethnicity, number of participants) and exposure information (sources of exposure, bio-sample analyzed, chemical name, concentration, and detection frequencies). The results will be presented using a narrative summary, tables, bar plots and color-coded maps. The interactive database will be available on a dedicated freely accessible website. This protocol has been registered on Open Science Framework (OSF) and is available at https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/MNWTD.

Despite the advent of vaccines against COVID-19, there is considerable variation in the acceptance and hesitancy towards the vaccination program across different countries. The objective of this study was to ascertain the prevalence of hesitancy and acceptance regarding the use of the vaccine against the novel coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, and to identify the factors that influence these attitudes. All the cross-sectional studies were retrieved from the PubMed databases, the Web of Science ISI, Scopus, and the Cochrane Library. Papers published in English between 2 November 2019 and 23 May 2023 were subjected to further assessment based on their title, abstract, and main text, with a view to ensuring their relevance to the present study. Following an exhaustive investigation, 59 studies were selected for screening in this systematic review. The most frequently employed method of data collection was the online survey. The study sample comprised 59.12% women and 40.88% men, with ages ranging from 16 to 78 years. The proportion of individuals accepting the vaccine ranged from 13% to 96%, while the proportion of those exhibiting hesitancy ranged from 0% to 57.5%. The primary reasons for accepting the COIVD-19 vaccine were a heightened perception of risk associated with the virus and a general trust in the healthcare system. The most frequently cited reasons for vaccine hesitancy in the context of the ongoing pandemic include concerns about the potential dangers of the vaccines, the rapid pace of their development, the possibility of adverse effects (such as infertility or death), and the assumption that they have been designed to inject microchips. A variety of socio-demographic factors are implicated in determining the rate of vaccine acceptance. A number of socio-demographic factors have been identified as influencing vaccine acceptance. These include high income, male gender, older age, marriage, the presence of older children who have been vaccinated and do not have chronic diseases, high education, and health insurance coverage. Eliminating vaccine hesitancy or increasing vaccine acceptance is a crucial factor that should be addressed through various means and in collaboration with regulatory and healthcare organizations.

This study analyzes disparities in initial health care responses in Turkey and Syria following the 2023 earthquakes. Using Humanitarian Data Exchange, Crude Mortality Rates (CMR) and injury rates in both countries were calculated, and temporal trends of death tolls and injuries in the first month post- catastrophe were compared. World Health Organization (WHO) Flash Appeal estimated funding requirements, and ratios of humanitarian aid personnel in Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) teams per population from ReliefWeb and MAPACTION data were used to gauge disparities. 56 051 096 individuals were exposed, with Turkey having 44 million vs 12 million in Syria. Turkey had higher CMR in affected areas (10.5 vs. 5.0 per 10,000), while Syria had higher CMR in intensely seismic regions (9.3 vs. 7.7 per 1,000). Turkey had higher injury rates (24.6 vs. 9.9 per 10 000). Death and injury rates plateaued in Syria after 3 days, but steadily rose in Turkey. Syria allocated more funding for all priorities per population except health care facilities' rehabilitation. Turkey had 219 USAR teams compared to Syria's 6, with significantly more humanitarian aid personnel (23 vs. 2/100,000). Significant disparities in the initial health care response were observed between Turkey and Syria, highlighting the need for policymakers to enhance response capabilities in conflict-affected events to reduce the impact on affected populations. The 2023 Turkish-Syrian earthquakes, the most devastating in the region since 1939, heightened challenges in Syria's health care system amid ongoing conflict, disrupting Gaziantep's humanitarian aid supply route. The initial health care responses post-earthquakes in Turkey and Syria were analyzed through a descriptive study, where Crude Mortality Rates (CMR) and injury rates during the first week were calculated. The World Health Organization's funding priorities and the ratio of humanitarian aid personnel in Urban Search and Rescue teams per population were assessed. Turkey had 4-fold higher earthquake exposure and experienced higher CMR and injuries per population, while Syria had higher CMR in intensely seismic regions. Temporal trends showed plateaued death and injury rates in Syria within 3 days, while Turkey's continued to increase. Syria required more funding across nearly all priorities while Turkey had more humanitarian aid personnel per population. Significant health care response disparities were observed, emphasizing the imperative for policymakers to enhance initial responses in conflict-affected events.

In many countries, public transport (PT) services are offered by multiple operators with different modes, such as trains, metros, and buses, which are interchangeable across a single journey. This paper presents a model with one origin (O)-destination(D) path operated by two operators, each of which is responsible for different parts of the OD journey. One operator competes with potential third-party transport companies by offering discount incentives. Such an abstract settings has not been discussed in the literature. We explore how prices, demand, profits, and social welfare change with discounts through a theoretical analysis and numerical simulations under five scenarios. The results indicate that in all the scenarios the operator offering a discount incentive can always attract more passengers and increase its profits. Moreover, reducing the service time of operators offering discounts contributes to an increase in social welfare. Notably, this paper deduces for the first time that the demand scenario aimed at maximizing social welfare is twice as high as that aimed at maximizing total profit. However, in the scenario of maximum social welfare, the profitability of operators becomes challenging.

Rates of alcohol-related mortality (including deaths attributed to chronic alcohol use as well as acute causes involving alcohol) have been increasing in the United States, particularly for certain population subgroups, such as women. This review summarizes associations of area-level social determinants of health with alcohol-related mortality. These determinants, measured at the community, county, or state level, include alcohol control policies, health care availability, and a community's socioeconomic environment. Examining multiple geographic levels illuminates how macro-level social determinants and local contexts contribute to alcohol-related mortality to inform intervention. Attention to the broad variety of social determinants of alcohol-related mortality could ultimately improve community health. A literature search of three databases-PubMed, Web of Science, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL)-conducted between March 13 and May 16, 2023, identified peer-reviewed studies published from 1990 to May 2023 that modeled at least one area-level social determinant of health as a predictor or correlate of area-level rates of alcohol-related mortality in the United States. Unpublished dissertations, commentaries, editorials, review papers, and articles published in languages other than English were excluded. Two team members reviewed each abstract to verify that the article addressed alcohol-related mortality and included at least one area-level social determinant of health. The authors screened 313 abstracts and excluded 210 that did not meet inclusion criteria. The full texts of 103 articles were retrieved. Upon further screening, 30 articles were excluded (two were not obtained), leaving 71 studies for detailed review. Many studies analyzed fatal alcohol-related motor vehicle crashes or cirrhosis/liver disease mortality. Fewer analyzed other mortality causes related to chronic alcohol consumption. No studies focused on racism and discrimination, community-level prevention activities, or community social services in relation to alcohol-related mortality. Few studies examined major health policy changes or addressed health care system factors. Although the variation across studies complicates systematic comparison of the results, some key themes did emerge from the reviewed studies, such as the beneficial effects of stronger alcohol policies and the importance of socioeconomic conditions as determinants of alcohol-related mortality. Research using a more diverse set of theoretically informed social determinants may help examine whether, how, and for whom racism and discrimination as well as health policies and social services impact alcohol-related mortality. Finally, there is a gap in research linking local community contexts with alcohol-related mortality. Better understanding of subgroup differences, interactions between different contextual factors, and specific mechanisms of action may help identify promising new strategies to improve population health and reduce alcohol-related mortality.

There are little recent data in China regarding contemporary nutritional inequities among children and adolescents, particularly in relation to urban-rural residence and regional socioeconomic status (SES). We aim to assess inequalities in thinness and obesity in Chinese children and adolescents. Weight and height measurements for 1 677 261 children and adolescents aged 7-18 years were obtained from seven cycles of the Chinese National Surveys on Students Constitution and Health (1985, 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010, 2014, and 2019). Sex-specific BMI-for-age Z scores were applied to define thinness (Z scores <-2SD) and obesity (Z scores >+2SD). Urban-rural classification came from the Statistical Urban and Rural Division Code, and gross domestic product (GDP) per capita in the province in which the school was situated was used as a proxy for SES. T1 represented the provinces with the most disadvantaged SES and T3 represented the provinces with the most advantaged SES. General linear regression models assessed correlations between prevalence and GDP per capita, with projections to 2030 derived from best-fitting models. The mean prevalence of obesity rose from 0·10% (95% CI 0·09 to 0·11) in 1985 to 8·25% (8·13 to 8·37) in 2019, whereas thinness prevalence decreased from 8·49% (8·41 to 8·58) to 3·37% (3·29 to 3·45). High SES provinces exhibited a significant drop in obesity prevalence from 2014 (8·42% [8·19 to 8·65]) to 2019 (7·73% [7·52 to 7·95]). Nationally, the prevalence of obesity was consistently higher in urban areas than in rural areas for both sexes from 1985 to 2019; however, a greater prevalence of obesity was observed in rural than urban girls residing in T3 regions in 2019 (urban-rural gap: -0·37% [-0·07 to -0·80]). Rural boys had a higher prevalence of thinness than their urban counterparts across all survey waves, with the exceptions of 1985 and 1995. For girls, no significant urban-rural gap in thinness was observed in the most recent survey in 2019 (-0·10% [-0·24 to 0·04]). From 1985 to 2014, boys and girls from high SES regions had a higher risk of obesity and a lower risk of thinness than those from low SES regions. However, in 2019, a nationwide shift occurred, and the T3-T1 difference in obesity approached or went below zero for boys (-0·49% [-1·02 to 0·04]) and girls (-0·68% [-1·00 to -0·35]). T3-T1 differences in thinness also approached zero for boys (-0·46% [-0·77 to -0·14]) and girls (-0·14% [-0·43 to 0·15]). The projected estimates to 2030 for urban-rural obesity gaps (boys: -1·00% [-2·65 to 0·65]; girls: -2·88% [-6·91 to 1·15]) and T3-T1 obesity differences (boys: -8·88% [-13·76 to -4·01]; girls: -8·82% [-12·78 to -4·85]) were both negative, with forecasted estimates for urban-rural gaps and T3-T1 differences in thinness prevalence in 2030 close to zero for both boys and girls. China's socioeconomic development continues to influence within-country inequities regarding the regional distribution of child and adolescent weight according to urban-rural location and regional SES. Contemporary Chinese children and adolescents in socioeconomically disadvantaged regions and rural areas constitute a vulnerable population facing nutritional risk, but from obesity rather than thinness. Disrupting projected inequities in obesity will require extensive preventive investments. National Natural Science Foundation of China, Beijing Natural Science Foundation, Peking University Talent Introduction Program Project, and Clinical Medicine Plus X-Young Scholars Project of Peking University. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

This scoping review outlines the current understanding, challenges, available resources, and healthcare needs of women affected by intimate partner violence (IPV) who experience unintended pregnancy (UP). UPs are defined as unwanted, unplanned, or mistimed pregnancies. The impact of UP is multifaceted and carries several additional risks, particularly for women who experience IPV. The experiences and living conditions, including (mental) burdens, resources, care structures, and the needs of unintentionally pregnant women who have experienced IPV, remain mostly unexplored. The review will include the following criteria: (i) reproductive-aged women who have experienced IPV and UP; (ii) publications that provide detailed accounts of the experiences, circumstances, and/or needs of women with UP who have experienced IPV. This study will utilize the JBI methodology for scoping reviews and follow the PRISMA Protocol for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR). A total of 2,325 papers and gray literature published from 2000 to the present were identified. 1,539 literature items were included in the title and abstract screening. Two researchers will independently choose studies, perform data extraction, and perform data synthesis. Quantitative data will be narratively summarized and qualitative data will be analyzed using thematic analysis. The findings will identify research gaps and provide insights into an important topic of reproductive healthcare and the (mental) health situation of a particularly vulnerable group. This will be useful in defining indications for researchers, professionals, and policymakers in public, mental, and reproductive health to conceptualize interdisciplinary and empirical healthcare support for affected women. Open Science Framework: https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/ZMVPE.

In 2017, the National Library of Medicine (NLM) added a voluntary field for conflict of interest (COI) statements ("posted COI") on the abstract page of PubMed, but the extent to which it is used is unknown. This repeated cross-sectional study examined journals and articles indexed on PubMed from 2016 through 2021. We described the proportion of all journals with at least one article that included a posted COI and the percentage of all articles that included a posted COI over time. We also examined 100 randomly selected articles published between June 2021 and May 2022 from each of the 40 highest impact journals. For these, we established whether the articles had published COIs, and, of these, the proportion that included a posted COI. Among approximately 7,000 journals publishing articles each year, the proportion of journals with at least one article with a posted COI statement increased from 25.9% in 2016 to 33.2% in 2021. Among nearly 400,000 articles published each year, the proportion of articles that included a posted COI also increased from 9.0% in 2016 to 43.0% in 2021. Among 3,888 articles published in the 40 highest impact journals in 2021-2022, 30.2% (95% CI: 28.7%-31.6%) had published COIs; of these, 63.3% (95% CI: 60.4%-66.0%) included a posted COI. Use of the PubMed COI statement has increased since it became available in 2017, but adoption is still limited, even among high impact journals. NLM should carry out additional outreach to journals that are not using the statement to promote greater transparency of COIs.

Innovation has in common the promise of benefit for patients; however, past experience has shown that this promise is not always delivered. Instead, low-value innovation might encourage treatment variation and dilute the available body of evidence. This study aims to investigate (1) whether the peer-review process is capable of filtering out low-value innovation appropriately, and (2) whether low-value surgical innovation would be preferred more often than nonoperative innovation by peer-reviewers in the treatment of proximal humeral fractures in the elderly. Two duplicated sham scientific abstracts, respectively introducing a low-value surgical innovation and a valuable nonsurgical innovation, were submitted to nineteen peer-reviewed scientific meetings worldwide for orthopedic trauma surgery with submission deadlines between 01/01/2022 and 31/12/2022. Decision regarding abstract acceptance was compared. There was a high acceptance rate for the abstract introducing low-value surgical innovation (12 out of 19 (63.2 %)), which was higher than that of a nonoperative duplicate (10 out of 19 (52.6 %)), but this difference was not statistically significant ( There is a high acceptance rate for low-value surgical innovation among peer-reviewed scientific meetings. However, we can not conclude that low-value surgical innovation is preferred more often than nonoperative innovation by peer-reviewers as the differences in acceptance rate were small and not statistically significant. The peer-review process may be suitable as value-based medicine emerges. Scientists should be encouraged to pursue value-based innovation.

Creating an overview of the existing literature about peer support in paediatrics, with a focus on children with chronic diseases. An online search was conducted in MEDLINE and Web of Science. English, Dutch or French articles published between 1 January 2000 and 10 May 2023 were included, based on title and abstract. In this review, 47 articles were included, identifying following themes: Health-Related Quality of Life (n = 8), peer support for parents/siblings (n = 6), social environment (n = 2), and peer support programme for children (n = 31) subdivided in: general concept (n = 13), online (n = 11), camps (n = 6), and development of a peer support programme (n = 1). Peer support aims to improve disease-related knowledge, coping, and management of the disease, as well as creating a positive mindset and decreasing the disease burden. There is no consensus regarding which peer group design was superior. Peer groups aim to increase knowledge and psychological adaptation, and decrease physical symptoms and side effects. It is desired to start the peer mentor programme within 1 year after diagnosis or during a critical incident. Further investigation needs to determine the optimal age to start these groups and the format (online or in-person). Communication between mentors and their mentees was crucial in the succeeding of the programme, as well as creating a safe environment to share experiences. Even though research is still needed concerning peer-to-peer support for children, there is already a lot known about similar programmes for parents of children with chronic diseases.

On the effectiveness of a new advisory service for parents of children in need of care: a controlled study 

Many nurses report feeling underprepared and insecure about the mandated reporting of concern for child maltreatment, which is further compounded by parental disability. This scoping review examined the body of literature on nurse mandated reporting responsibility within the context of parental disability. A scoping review was conducted as informed by the Arksey and O'Malley Framework and the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews. Initial database search identified 2,669 records, which then underwent title and abstract screening (n = 2458), assessment for full text review (n = 53), and full review (n = 28). Analysis of 106 quantitative and 22 qualitative variables revealed sparse evidence and guidance to help nurses navigate mandated reporting of child abuse in families with parental disability. Findings identified opportunities to inform research, policy, and practice to better meet the needs of nurse mandated reporters and families with parental disability.

Adolescence is a critical developmental stage for young people as they transition into adulthood. Several important developmental tasks that must be completed during this transition include exploring one's identity, developing and applying abstract thinking, adjusting to a new physical sense of self, and fostering stable and productive peer relationships while striving for autonomy and independence from parents. Young people begin to adopt a personal value system and form their racial and ethnic, social, sexual, and moral identity within a society that may provide conflicting and nonaffirming messages. Adolescent development strives toward an affirmed sense of self and self-esteem, which is best accomplished within a nurturing psychosocial context that fosters positive youth development. Youth-focused interventions should intentionally promote affirmation of ancestry and cultural identity, intersections with other historically marginalized identities, and critical consciousness. Fostering healing environments that affirm and address the radical need for change, coaching parents and guardians as critical agents in the creation of affirmative environments for development, and conducting research using anti-oppressive approaches are additional strategies to promote positive youth development. Simultaneously, structural transformations that address underlying social inequities are needed. Health care systems should continue to diversify the workforce and train staff and clinicians in integrative, identity-based, and healing-centered approaches. Organizations should consider training in diversity and competencies related to belonging while safeguarding inclusion with policies, procedures, and practices. Public health and policymakers can embed intersectional approaches within structural and systemic processes, particularly in all policies.

The objective is to gather evidence on ways to integrate DEIA into the didactic and experiential pharmacy classroom based on AACP's 2021-2024 Strategic Plan Objective 3.3.1. to "compile and publish resources related to best practices in inclusive pedagogy, creating inclusive classrooms, navigating difficult conversations, and promoting equitable campus climates for use by schools and colleges of pharmacy.". Sixteen publications were identified (14 peer-reviewed manuscripts and two poster abstracts). Of those, two explored the utilization of technology to make lesson plans more inclusive; seven discussed ways for students to address implicit biases, microaggressions, and navigating difficult conversations; five focused on accommodating students with disabilities; one discussed developing better pronunciation of students' names; and one discussed a method to improve student's self-awareness and awareness of other cultures. Although evidence was found on integrating DEIA into the didactic and experiential settings, the amount of evidence found is limited, warranting further research.

Socioeconomic status is a key social determinant of health. Compared with individual-level socioeconomic status, the association between area-level socioeconomic status and mortality has not been well investigated in China. We aimed to assess associations between area-level socioeconomic status and all-cause mortality and cause-specific mortality in China, as well as the interplay of area-level and individual-level socioeconomic status on mortality. In this nationwide cohort study, residents aged 35-75 years from 453 districts and counties were included in the China Health Evaluation and Risk Reduction Through Nationwide Teamwork (ChinaHEART) Study. The composite value of area-level socioeconomic status was generated from national census data and categorised into tertiles. Mortality rates and their 95% CIs were calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method. Cox frailty models were fitted to calculate adjusted hazard ratios and 95% CIs for area-level socioeconomic status with the risk of all-cause mortality and cause-specific mortality and their disparities across different population. We also assessed the roles of multiple individual factors as potential mediators. Between December, 2015, and December, 2022, 1 119 027 participants were included, for whom the mean age was 56·1 (SD 9·9) years and 672 385 (60·1%) were female. 24 426 (5·24 [95% CI 5·18-5·31] per 1000 person-years) deaths occurred during the median 4·5-year follow-up. Compared with high area-level socioeconomic status, low area-level socioeconomic status was significantly associated with an increased risk of all-cause (hazard ratio 1·11, 95% CI 1·07-1·16), cardiovascular disease (1·38, 1·29-1·48), and respiratory disease (1·44, 1·22-1·71) mortality. The stronger associations were observed in people older than 60 years, females, and participants with lower individual-level socioeconomic status. The individual-level socioeconomic, behavioural, and metabolic factors mediated 39·5% of the association between area-level socioeconomic status and mortality, of which individual-level socioeconomic status made the largest contribution. There are substantial area-level socioeconomic status-related inequalities in mortality in China. Individual-level socioeconomic, behavioural, and metabolic factors had mediating effects. Actions to improve area-level circumstances and individual factors are needed to improve health equity. The Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Science, the National High Level Hospital Clinical Research Funding, the Ministry of Finance of China, and the National Health Commission of China. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Epistemological Misunderstandings of the German Federal Court of Justice in Criminal Cases Regarding the Null Hypothesis: Verification in the Credibility Assessment 

To characterize representation and inclusion among Sleep Research Society members and examine associations between sociodemographic features and Sleep Research Society experiences. The Sleep Research Society Taskforce for Diversity and Inclusion developed a web-based questionnaire in 2021, assessing membership data and Sleep Research Society experiences (self-initiated and society-initiated participation, feeling very welcomed, perceptions of inclusiveness, and diversity of viewpoints represented). Frequencies were calculated and adjusted Poisson regression models with robust variance were fit to estimate associations. Most participants (n = 388; 35.7% of members) were aged 18-49 (61%), non-Hispanic White (65%), and women (59%). Regarding inclusion, 41% participated in ≥2 Sleep Research Society self-initiated activities (abstract submission), 56% in Sleep Research Society-initiated activities (appointed position), 51% felt welcomed, whereas 52% perceived a lack of inclusivity and 65% a lack of diverse viewpoints. Historically minoritized groups and women felt less welcomed compared to non-Hispanic White members and men. Older, biracial, women, gender-divergent, and U.S.-born individuals, were less likely to perceive that there was a diversity of viewpoints represented in the Sleep Research Society. Members of ≥10years and those with a doctoral degree were more likely to participate in Sleep Research Society activities, while sexual and gender minoritized individuals were less likely to do so. Sexual and gender minoritized individuals were more likely to report Sleep Research Society was noninclusive. Historically minoritized individuals are under-represented in Sleep Research Society and a majority of respondents report not feeling welcomed. These results serve as a baseline benchmark and example for assessing the impact of ongoing and future diversity and inclusion initiatives and provide targets for expanding opportunities for underrepresented individuals in sleep/circadian societies.

No abstract present.

The prevalence of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDPs) in India is 11%, which is one of the highest rates globally. Existing research on HDPs in India primarily focuses on biological risk factors, with minimal research on how socioecological factors combine to increase risk of HDPs. We conducted a rapid review using Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Model to understand the social and cultural factors associated with HDPs among Indian pregnant women to identify possible intervention targets that may uniquely improve health in this population. Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Model is a framework that can be used to understand the complex relationship between multiple influences on health. We reviewed studies published between January 2010 and January 2024 using PubMed, Science Direct, and Scopus databases. Search terms included variants of hypertension, pregnancy, and India. Inclusion criteria were: (1) peer-reviewed journal article; (2) published between January 2010 to January 2024; (3) participants consisted of Indian women living in India; (4) studies evaluated socioecological risk factors associated with HDPs. One independent reviewer performed searches, screening, data extraction, and quality assessment. Each included study was then organized within Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Model. A total of 921 studies were generated from the initial search, with 157 exclusions due to duplicates. Following screening for inclusion and exclusion criteria at the title/abstract and full text levels, 17 studies remained in the final review. Socioecological risk factors of HDPs were identified at each level, with the most commonly identified influences including: low socioeconomic status (SES), lacking community education and knowledge on HDP management and prevention, and lacking prenatal HDP screening. This study determined that the high risk for HDPs in India is influenced by many intertwined socioecological factors. Women in rural and low SES areas need more health education on HDP management and prevention. There also needs to be more adequate prenatal HDP screening, with at least 4 and ideally 8 prenatal visits. Prenatal screenings should be accompanied with culturally appropriate patient education, especially for low SES women who have limited literacy, so that they can effectively make individual and microsystemic lifestyle decisions aimed at either managing or preventing HDPs.

This article traces the evolution of the Big Events framework since it began as an attempt to understand why sociopolitical transitions in the Former Soviet Union, South Africa, and Indonesia were followed by HIV outbreaks. Big Events frameworks have evolved over time, but all versions try to concretize how macrosocial changes lead to social, personal and environmental changes that shape risk environments and drug use or other behavioral patterns in ways that may lead to epidemics. Important stages in the evolution of the Big Events framework included understanding that the sequelae of Big Events were contingent rather than deterministic, and the development of new survey measures to understand pathways through which Big Events affect social and epidemiologic outcomes. On a broader level, the Big Events framework is a useful crystallization and application of more abstract sociological, social epidemiologic and Marxist frameworks about upstream/downstream relationships and how major social changes are related to epidemics. As such, they raise issues of how to conduct research on dialectical interaction processes. On another level, this article traces the Big Events "style of thought" as Mannheim (Mannheim, 1971) termed it, within the historical context of changes in public health and social science theory, particularly during and after the 1960s.

Obstetric violence involves the mistreatment, disrespect, and abuse of birthing people and the problem has been recognized in healthcare systems worldwide. Obstetric violence is a gendered, sex-specific form of violence against women that is a public health problem and a violation of human rights. There are an unknowable number of online posts and social media messages that describe obstetric violence experiences. There are no known studies about self-published experiences of obstetric violence in the US maternity care system. To understand the meaning of obstetric violence experiences in the US maternity care system from a naturally occurring, purposive sample. A secondary analysis of the textual data from the original Break the Silence social media campaign using qualitative content analysis. The theory of social justice in nursing provided a theoretical framework. A healthcare systems approach was used for a wide-angle view of the multidirectional structure, processes, and outcome of obstetric violence. The study setting is the public Facebook page where the Break the Silence social media campaign can be seen. Break the Silence was an online activism response to the problem of obstetric violence in the US maternity care system with signboard messages posted from 31 known US states. The setting is bounded by the digital page where the campaign is published. There were 139 participants, and 11 of them posted more than one signboard message. Most participants were birthing people (n = 125) followed by doulas (n = 10). Krippendorff's methodology for qualitative content analysis was applied to 156 signboard messages posted on Break the Silence from 2014 to 2016. Qualitative content analysis was supported by Atlas.ti 23. Four themes illustrated the meaning of obstetric violence in US maternity care: 1) pregnancy and birth as a battle with healthcare providers and the healthcare system, 2) sacrifice of the maternal body normalized and assumed as a gender stereotype, 3) disrupted rites of passage from childbirth, and 4) abuse of fiduciary power by healthcare providers. This study demonstrated thematic meanings for the experience of obstetric violence in US maternity care with a healthcare systems approach that included structural and organizational considerations to increase understanding. Categories and forms of obstetric violence from the existing literature were expanded and strengthened by findings from this study. Themes were validated in principle with consistency in findings across the international evidence base on obstetric violence. The meaning of #obstetricviolence experiences is interpersonal and structural with thematic consistency across international studies.

To provide guidance on ultrasound review of the fetal perineum as well as fetal sex determination and disclosure. All individuals with ongoing pregnancies. To include a review of the fetal perineum and determination of fetal sex as a component of the anatomic review during the routine second-trimester obstetric ultrasound and adhere to patient wishes regarding the disclosure of fetal sex. Prenatal diagnosis of fetal genital and sex anomalies or variants, parental and pregnancy caregiver knowledge of fetal sex, and adherence to parental wishes regarding knowledge of fetal sex. Benefits include the potential to improve perinatal outcomes through the diagnosis of fetal genital anomalies and respect for women's rightful autonomy over personal health information. Potential harms or costs include a possible error in fetal sex determination, increased time for patients and health care providers in scheduling and performing the imaging, and the minimal risk of patients choosing to abort a pregnancy if the fetus is not the desired sex. Evidence built on the literature from the prior version of this statement through a review of international guidelines, Canadian legal rulings, and a literature search of PubMed and the Cochrane Database. English language research articles, review articles, and systematic reviews between January 1, 2003, and December 31, 2023, were included. Search terms included fetal ultrasonography, sex determination, and genitalia. The references of relevant articles were assessed, and applicable articles were included as well. All care providers for pregnant individuals in Canada. Fetal genitalia should be examined in pregnancy and the sex safely disclosed to the patient if they want this information. CONSENSUS-BASED GOOD PRACTICE STATEMENTS.

The ageing population of the culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) population is increasing in Australia. This is because the number of early migrants in Australia is ageing, coupled with increasing family reunification. This scoping review aimed to describe the nature and extent of research on the barriers to aged care services for CALD older adults in Australia using Penchansky and Thomas's Access to Care Framework of five A's dimensions: availability, accessibility, accommodation, affordability, and acceptability. Arksey and O'Malley's five-step scoping review framework was adopted to search 6 databases from inception till August 2024. Title/abstract and full-text screening were conducted using predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria, with supplementary search of references from included articles to identify additional articles. Findings show that while all the five A's of access to care services were barriers for CALD older adults, accommodation and acceptability of services were the major areas of concern due to the lack of cultural sensitivity of such services in Australia. An additional barrier captured and termed as Awareness was noted in some of the included studies, highlighting the need to expand the five A's to 6 A's. Researchers, practitioners, and policymakers on ageing could leverage these findings to improve cultural practice sensitivities when supporting these populations.

When clinically effective, cost-effective health interventions are not fully implemented in clinical practice, population health suffers. Economic factors are among the most commonly cited reasons for suboptimal implementation. Despite this, implementation and economic evaluation are not routinely performed in conjunction with one another. This review sought to identify and describe what methods are available for researchers to incorporate implementation within economic evaluation, how these methods differ, when they should be used, and where gaps remain. We conducted a scoping review using systematic methods. A pearl-growing approach was used to identify studies. References and citations were identified using Web of Science and Scopus. We included for review any study that contained terms relating to economic evaluation and a series of implementation-related terms in the title or abstract. The search was conducted and validated using two independent researchers. Our review identified 42 unique studies that included a methodology for combining implementation and economic evaluation. The methods identified could be categorized into four broad themes: (i) policy cost-effectiveness approach (11 studies), (ii) value of information and value of implementation approach (16 studies), (iii) mixed methods approach (6 studies), and (iv) costing approach (9 studies). We identified a trend over time from methods that adopted the policy cost-effectiveness approach to methods that considered the trade-off between the value of information and value of implementation. More recently, mixed methods approaches to incorporate economic evaluation and implementation have been developed, alongside methods to define, measure and cost individual components of the implementation process for use in economic evaluation. Our review identified a range of methods currently available for researchers considering implementation alongside economic evaluation. There is no single method or tool that can incorporate all the relevant issues to fully incorporate implementation within an economic evaluation. Instead, there are a suite of tools available, each of which can be used to answer a specific question relating to implementation. Researchers, reimbursement agencies and national and local decision-makers need to consider how best to utilize these tools to improve implementation.

Gaza has long been subjected to food insecurity; however, little was known about the influence of food insecurity on the nutritional wellbeing of schoolchildren. To fill this gap, the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), which provides humanitarian relief to Palestine refugees, assessed the nutritional status, diet, and food security of refugee children about to enter first grade (aged 4-10 years, mean age 72·1 months) in mid-2023 during a required health examination. As part of an annual School Entrance Health Examinations that began in May, a cross-sectional food security and nutritional assessment was added from July 8, to Sept 7, 2023, during which children being examined at six study-designated UNRWA clinics across Gaza were systematically sampled (in a 1:4 ratio) and parental or guardian consent sought for their participation. Household food security was assessed by a seven-point Arab Family food Security Scale score, and respondents were asked about family receipt of food assistance. The 1-week meal patterns of the children were probed, and intake frequencies of 49 foods in the past month categorised into ten nutritious food groups to assess diet diversity. The weight, height, and haemoglobin concentrations (assessed with a photometric analyser) of the children were measured. The UNRWA Research Review Board approved all study procedures. Approximately 34 000 children underwent the annual School Entrance Health Examination in Gaza in May, 2023 and approximately 16 000 children were estimated to have completed the additional food security and nutritional assessments from July 8, to early Sept 7, 2023, of whom 3814 were systematically sampled at six UNRWA clinics across Gaza, with 3229 (84·7%) parents or guardians consenting for their children to participate. 3155 were interviewed about household food security with a seven-point Arab Family Food Security Score, and 3212 were asked about food assistance receipt. 2694 (83·9%) of 3212 households were on food assistance, 787 (24·9%) of 3155 were classified as food secure (0-2 points), 1025 (32·5%) were classified as moderately (3-5 points) food insecure, and 1343 (42·6%) as severely food insecure (6-7 points). 219 (28·5%) of 768 children reported missing breakfast and 213 (28·4%) of 750 reported missing dinner in the food-secure group, 438 (47·2%) of 928 reported missing breakfast and 426 (45·6%) of 934 reported missing dinner in the moderately food-insecure group, and 956 (75·5%) of 1267 reported missing breakfast and 951 (74·8%) of 1272 reported missing dinner in the severely food-insecure group. Lunch was missed daily by 30 (3·8%) of 786 children in the food-secure group, 54 (5·3%) of 1023 in the moderately food-insecure group, and 193 (14·5%) of 1334 in the severely food-insecure group. Diets were poor in dairy items, meat, poultry, fish, pulses, eggs, and vitamin A-rich vegetables and fruit, and 2225 (68·9%) of 3229 children did not consume a minimally diverse diet every day (≥5 nutritious food groups). 72 (2·5%) of 2913 children had stunting and 129 (4·4%) of 2913 had wasting (less than -2 Z scores), and 963 (29·8%) of 3229 had anaemia (haemoglobin <11·5 g/dL). Boys and girls were similar in their diets, anthropometric Z scores, and prevalence of anaemia. Gazan families with children about to enter first grade were food insecure and reliant on food assistance, possibly protecting the anthropometric status of the children, whose diets however lacked diversity. Japan Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Vitamin Angels Alliance, USA. For the Arabic translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Due to the geographical distance, work obligations, and parenting responsibilities, it is often difficult for parents to visit the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Limited parent presence might also constrain updates about infant status thus increasing anxiety, which potentially leads to a stronger necessity for visitation. Examine the evidence for use of electronic visit (eVisit) technology for parents of newborns in NICU, for example, do eVisits decrease anxiety and are there other factors that demonstrate effectiveness. Seven databases were used to search for evidence from 1 January 2000 to 13 November 2023. Studies were included with terms related to eHealth, NICU, infant, parent and 41 eligible studies were assessed. Data were extracted by 2 reviewers with a systematic-staged review approach. Eight studies with a total of 1450 cases were included. Results of meta-analysis showed that eVisit technology improved anxiety compared with conventional visitation (MD = - 5.04, 95% CI [-5.92, - 4.17], P < .01) and hospitalization satisfaction (RR = 1.09, 95% CI [1.05, 1.13], P < .01), but the effect was not significant with regard to reduction in infant length of stay (MD = - 1.07, 95% CI [-5.39, 3.25], P = .63). A large sample, high-quality, multi-centered randomized controlled study needs to be conducted to validate the effect of eVisit technology on the psychological state of parents, implications for nursing practice as well as potential newborn affects to improve future ease of use. Available for more insights from the authors. This video shows the concept, current status, significance, and implications for practice and research of eVisit technology.

Asthma is a prevalent chronic disease affecting school-age children, with substantial psychosocial implications for children and their parents. This review aimed to synthesise current evidence on the effects of psychosocial interventions for families of school-age children with asthma and investigate the optimal features of effective interventions. Embase, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Web of Science Core Collection, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Google Scholar, CNKI, and Wanfang Data were searched from inception to November 2023. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) examining psychosocial interventions in children aged six to twelve with asthma on asthma symptoms and parental stress were included. Emergency department visits, hospitalisations, lung function, psychological symptoms and health-related quality of life in both children and parents were secondary outcomes. Data were pooled for short-term (≤ three months), medium-term (> three months and ≤ six months), and long-term (> six months) follow-ups. Risk of bias was appraised using version 2 of the Cochrane risk of bias tool for randomised trials. Meta-analysis was performed using RevMan 5.4.1. Seven RCTs with 884 parent-child dyads from two countries were included. Meta-analyses found that psychosocial interventions improved asthma control (k = 2, n = 301, standardised mean difference [SMD] 0.35, 95 % confidence interval [CI] 0.12 to 0.58, P = 0.003), sleep problem (k = 2, n = 149, SMD -0.47, 95 % CI -0.79 to -0.14, P = 0.005), cough (k = 2, n = 149, SMD -0.97, 95 % CI -1.59 to -0.35, P = 0.002), wheezing (k = 2, n = 149, SMD -0.76, 95 % CI -1.09 to -0.42, P < 0.0001), and parental stress (k = 6, n = 813, SMD -0.32, 95 % CI -0.61 to -0.02, P = 0.03), compared to controls in the short term. Subgroup analysis revealed significant effects of psychoeducation, family empowerment interventions, and acceptance and commitment therapy-based interventions on reducing parental stress. No significant intervention effects were observed on parental symptoms of depression at any follow-up. Narrative synthesis indicated that psychosocial interventions may provide benefits in children's health-related quality of life in the short term, parental symptoms of anxiety in the medium term, and activity limitation, cough, and wheezing in the long term. The intervention effects for other reviewed outcomes were inconsistent. Psychosocial interventions demonstrate possible benefits for families of school-aged children with asthma in asthma symptoms, parental stress, and children's health-related quality of life within three months post-intervention and parental symptoms of anxiety at six months post-intervention. Future research with rigorous design should investigate the optimal duration, frequency, and intervention approaches of psychosocial interventions. Psychosocial interventions improve asthma symptoms and parental stress within three months post-intervention for families of school-age children with asthma @ConnieChong1.

Clinical nursing care is an essential element in pediatric oncology. The body of research interventions targeting pediatric oncology patients and their families has grown in recent years. However, no reviews are currently available on nursing interventions for pediatric oncology. The aim was to develop a comprehensive overview of the available nursing interventions for pediatric oncology patients and their families, outline the characteristics of the interventions, and identify any knowledge gaps. This review was conducted in accordance with the JBI guidelines for scoping reviews. Citations were retrieved from the following databases: Scopus, PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and Embase. The following inclusion criteria were applied: peer-reviewed studies written in English, Danish, Norwegian, or Swedish from 2000 onward and reporting on pediatric patients with cancer and/or family members of a pediatric patient with cancer who received non-pharmacological and non-procedural nursing interventions provided by a pediatric oncology hospital service. Eligible studies were screened by title and abstract, and in full text by two independent reviewers. Critical appraisal was achieved using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. Among 2762 references, 26 studies met the inclusions criteria, comprising 25 unique nursing interventions. 89 % had been published from 2013 onward, reflecting the rapid changes occurring in pediatric oncology treatment. 36 % were qualitative, 58 % were quantitative and 8 % employed mixed methods. The studies were characterized by considerable diversity in terms of intervention content, components, timing of delivery, and delivery mode. 60 % of the interventions were targeted parents among whom mothers were highly overrepresented (75 %). 16 % adopted a family-centered focus. This review contributes to building a more comprehensive understanding of the evidence base within pediatric oncology nursing research. This field is evolving and holds the potential to support families with childhood cancer across various phases of their treatment trajectory. However, a clear need exists to develop and test interventions with a genuinely family-centered focus, targeting both patients and family members. A considerable gap exists in reporting of the intervention development process and intervention characteristics. Improving the reporting of intervention development is needed to enhance research quality and facilitate subsequent adaptation or upscaling of interventions for use in other populations and contexts. Nursing interventions can support families with childhood cancer but future intervention studies need to enhance transparency in reporting @IJNSjournal.

Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. There is an association between certain social determinants of health (SDOH) and adverse cancer outcomes. These include Black race and low-income, which are associated with poorer adherence to lung cancer screening and presentation at a later stage of disease. We conducted a retrospective review of all patients with a diagnosis of lung cancer at a single urban, academic center from 2015 to 2021. Demographic data including race and clinical data including time taken to progress through various checkpoints (ie, concerning CT scan to diagnosis, diagnosis to treatment) were collected. Income data was approximated based on population medians at patient's home address zip code. A total of 550 patients were included in the final analysis. The study population was 57.4% Black and 61.2% of patients presenting with a household income of $40,000 US Dollars or lower based on approximated median household income. The time from CT scan to first treatment for the entire cohort was 121.3 days with no statistically significant variance by race. However, among patients presenting at stage IV, 72.7% were black and 76.0% resided in a zip code with a median income < $40,000. This study demonstrated no significant delays in progressing through checkpoints of lung cancer diagnosis and treatment on the basis of race or income approximation. Black patients and patients in low-income households were diagnosed with lung cancer at a more advanced stage. Efforts to close the gap in lung cancer disparities should be focused on targeting screening and early identification toward social groups that may be at highest risk of late presentation. Institutional focus on patient navigation through these stages should be paramount. There were no delays in progression to lung cancer diagnostic and therapeutic milestones based on race or income approximation. Black race and residing in a low-income area are predictors for presenting at stage IV.

During pregnancy and the early parenting period, women are especially vulnerable to intimate partner violence (IPV), with devastating impacts on women, children, and families. The aim of this systematic review was to determine the effectiveness of father-focused interventions to prevent or reduce IPV during pregnancy and early parenthood. Six databases were searched, using a combination of the concepts "fathers," "pregnancy/early parenthood," "IPV" and "intervention." Articles were double screened by title and abstract, and then full-text. Methodological and reporting quality was assessed using the Quality Assessment with Diverse Studies tool. Fifteen papers were eligible for inclusion; these articles were mostly of poor-to-moderate quality. Only three of the articles reported on interventions in lower- and middle-income countries. The most common forms of IPV addressed in these interventions were physical (10), psychological (8), sexual (4), and economic/financial (3). Of 12 articles reporting on data from both intervention and control groups, only six indicated statistically significant results; among these, only three reported robust analyses showing significantly greater reduction in IPV in intervention than in control groups. All three took place in lower- or middle-income countries. Two were underpinned by theoretical frameworks, which considered transforming traditional perceived gender norms. Therefore, interventions based on principles that address transformation of gender norms show promise but the success of such underlying principles needs to be confirmed, and better-quality evidence and reporting are needed for interventions targeting fathers to prevent or reduce IPV.

Refugees encounter multiple psychosocial stressors post-resettlement which increases their risk of developing a mental illness. Loneliness and social isolation are commonly reported in the refugee population and have been demonstrated to be associated with multiple physical and mental health comorbidities in the general population. However, no study to date has systematically reviewed how loneliness and social isolation may affect refugees who have resettled in high-income countries. This systematic review aims to study the prevalence, risk factors, consequences, and interventions for loneliness and social isolation among refugees who have resettled in high-income countries. Systematic searches on five electronic databases yielded 2950 papers, of which 69 were deemed eligible following a double-blinded review by title and abstract then later by full text. From the included studies, it was found that the reported range of prevalence rates of loneliness (15.9-47.7%) and social isolation (9.8-61.2%) were higher than population norms. Risk factors associated with loneliness and social isolation included family separation, acculturative stress, being female or a parent and a current diagnosis of a mental illness. Loneliness and social isolation were found to be associated with depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), psychological distress as well as physical health problems. Only three interventions addressing loneliness and social isolation were identified which demonstrates the importance of integrating social support in refugee psycho-social support programs. In summary, loneliness and social isolation were reported by a large proportion of refugees who have resettled in high-income countries. Whilst certain risk factors were pre-migratory and static, most were post-migratory in nature and were found to adversely affect mental and physical health. Thus, interventions focused on reducing loneliness and social isolation that are guided by the needs of refugee communities are urgently required.

Children utilizing invasive home mechanical ventilation (administered via tracheostomy tube) receive intensive care at home without the support of trained staff typically present in an intensive care unit; within the context of worsening home nursing shortages, much of the 24/7 care burden falls to families which are likely under supported. Prior reviews have explored the quality of life of children receiving various forms of mechanical ventilation, without addressing the impact on the family. Additionally, the literature inconsistently differentiates the unique experience of families with children using invasive home mechanical ventilation from non-invasive, which has lower morbidity and mortality and requires less nursing care in the home. Therefore, our study aims to explore and map the existing literature regarding the impact of invasive home mechanical ventilation on the child and family's quality of life. Identified gaps will inform future research focused on improving the family quality of life of children with invasive home mechanical ventilation. Five databases will be searched using keywords and controlled vocabulary to identify relevant studies: Ovid Medline, Embase, Scopus, and Cochrane Library. English language studies will meet inclusion criteria if they include primary research studies of children or families of children utilizing invasive home mechanical ventilation at home and assess quality of life. Children and young adults aged 0-25 years will be included. We exclude studies of hospitalized children, studies focused solely on healthcare professional experiences or clinical outcomes, and those focused on the period surrounding discharge from admission for tracheostomy placement. Two independent reviewers will screen studies at the title/abstract and full-text levels. Two independent reviewers will extract data from relevant studies. Disagreements will be resolved by an independent third reviewer. A targeted grey literature search will be performed utilizing ProQuest, clinicaltrials.gov, WHO trial registry, Google Scholar, and professional societies. Findings will be presented in tables and figures along with a narrative summary. This scoping review seeks to map the literature and provide a descriptive report of the health-related quality of life of children using invasive home mechanical ventilation and their families. Open Science Framework https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/6GB84 Date of Registration: November 29, 2023.

Social isolation and loneliness (SIL) are public health challenges that disproportionally affect individuals who experience structural and socio-economic exclusion. The social and health outcomes of SIL for people with experiences of being unhoused have largely remained unexplored. Yet, there is limited synthesis of literature focused on SIL to appropriately inform policy and targeted social interventions for people with homelessness experience. The aim of this scoping review is to synthesize evidence on SIL among people with lived experience of homelessness and explore how it negatively impacts their wellbeing. We carried out a comprehensive literature search from Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Sociological Abstracts, and Web of Science's Social Sciences Citation Index and Science Citation Index for peer-reviewed studies published between January 1st, 2000 to January 3rd, 2023. Studies went through title, abstract and full-text screening conducted independently by at least two reviewers. Included studies were then analyzed and synthesized to identify the conceptualizations of SIL, measurement tools and approaches, prevalence characterization, and relationship with social and health outcomes. The literature search yielded 5,294 papers after removing duplicate records. Following screening, we retained 27 qualitative studies, 23 quantitative studies and two mixed method studies. SIL was not the primary objective of most of the included articles. The prevalence of SIL among people with homelessness experience varied from 25 to 90% across studies. A range of measurement tools were used to measure SIL making it difficult to compare results across studies. Though the studies reported associations between SIL, health, wellbeing, and substance use, we found substantial gaps in the literature. Most of the quantitative studies were cross-sectional, and only one study used health administrative data to ascertain health outcomes. More studies are needed to better understand SIL among this population and to build evidence for actionable strategies and policies to address its social and health impacts.

Social decision-making is guided by a complex set of social norms. Computational modeling can play a significant role in enriching our understanding of these norms and how precisely they direct social choices. Here, we highlight three major advantages to using computational modeling, particularly models derived from Utility Theory, in the study of social norms. We illustrate how such models can help generate detailed processes of decision-making, enforce theoretical precision by delineating abstract concepts, and unpack when, and why, people adhere to specific social norms. For each benefit, we discuss a recent study which has employed modeling in the service of assessing the role of norms in decision-making, collectively revealing how computational modeling enables better prediction, description, and explanation of important social choices.

We describe a first-of-its-kind audit of LGBTQ+ inclusivity in fertility care providers across the United Kingdom. Despite efforts being made to improve LGBTQ+ inclusion in fertility care, our results paint a picture of widespread gaps in clinical and cultural expertise alongside significant barriers to LGBTQ+ inclusion. LGBTQ+ patients comprise one of the fastest-growing user demographics in fertility care, yet they remain under-represented in fertility research, practice, and discourse. Existing studies have revealed significant systemic barriers, including cisheteronormativity, discrimination, and gaps in clinical expertise. In this article, we present a checklist of measures that clinics can take to improve LGBTQ+ inclusion in fertility care, co-created with members of the LGBTQ+ community. This checklist focuses on three key areas: cultural competence, clinical considerations, and online presence. The cultural competence criteria encompass inclusive communication practices, a broad understanding of LGBTQ+ healthcare needs, and knowledge of treatment options suitable for LGBTQ+ individuals. Clinical considerations include awareness of alternative examination and gamete collection techniques for transgender and gender diverse patients, the existence of specific clinical pathways for LGBTQ+ patients, and sensitivity to the psychological aspects of fertility care unique to this demographic. The online presence criteria evaluate provider websites for the use of inclusive language and the availability of LGBTQ+-relevant information. The checklist was used as the foundation for an audit of fertility care providers across the UK in early 2024. Our audit identified a widespread lack of LGBTQ+ inclusion, particularly for transgender and gender diverse patients, highlighting deficiencies in clinical knowledge and cultural competence. Our work calls attention to the need for further efforts to understand the barriers to inclusive and competent LGBTQ+ fertility care from both healthcare provider and patient perspectives.

The internet is a crucial platform for individuals to gain social support, enhancing their well-being. However, research indicated that while online social support (OSS) has positive aspects, it also carries potential drawbacks and can lead to problematic Internet use (PIU). This study aims to examine the complex relationship between OSS and PIU. Adhering to the PRISMA guidelines, a systematic literature search was performed across five English and three Chinese databases. A total of 1966 articles were initially screened by title, followed by abstract, and finally, full text. And the random-effects model was used to synthesize the included 31 studies. 31 studies were identified, encompassing a total sample of 22,375 participants. Meta-analysis revealed a moderate and significant correlation between OSS and PIU (r = 0.293), and it was significantly moderated by gender and the measurement methods of PIU. Notably, the relationship was more pronounced in studies with a higher proportion of female participants; when PIU was measured by problematic social media use, the relationship with OSS was stronger than studies that measured PIU by general problematic Internet use or problematic mobile phone use. These findings contribute to a comprehensive understanding of the association between OSS and PIU, and carry implications for identifying and addressing the potential risks associated with social support provision in the digital realm.

The aim of the article is to analyze the current state of functioning of the medical information space of Ukraine in order to formulate scientifically sound proposals aimed at improving the implementation of medical reform. The study is based on the analysis of literary sources of Ukrainian and international scientists, Ukrainian and foreign legislation and judicial practice. The article uses general theoretical and special methods of scientific cognition: theoretical analysis, systemic and structural, analysis and synthesis, sociological and statistical, logical and semantic, comparative and legal, method of ascent from the abstract to the concrete, forecasting and generalization. One of the key categories of the reform of the Ukrainian national medical sphere - the unified medical information space and its constituent elements - is studied. The electronic health care system, which stores medical data about patients in a single place and ensures their exchange between medical institutions, is analyzed. Emphasis is placed on the possibilities of using telemedicine and artificial intelligence, which play a key role in the development of the unified medical information space in accordance with global trends. The importance of legislative provision of efficiency and safety of the unified medical space is emphasized. It is about regulating the protection of personal data, establishing technical standards and requirements for medical information systems, ensuring confidentiality, integrity and data availability of the unified medical information space. Conclusions are drawn about the importance of proper functioning of each of the elements of the unified medical information space, both individually and in conjunction with each other. The authors' vision of improving the existing system of the unified medical information space is presented.

to analyze the scientific literature on distance education programs for parents/caregivers in the development of children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). the PICO strategy was used to identify the research problem. The databases Medline, ERIC, LILACs, EMBASE, CINAHL, Web of Science, and Scopus were searched using specific descriptors and free terms. There were no restrictions on time or language. Articles on online educational programs for parents of children with ASD were selected, focusing on the impact of these programs on the development of children up to six years old. studies were selected based on standard eligibility criteria, including full-text reading after initial screening using the RAYYAN software. Primary studies such as clinical trials and systematic reviews evaluating distance education programs for parents of children with ASD were included. the RAYYAN software was used for initial study selection. Articles were hierarchically organized based on title and abstract, followed by full-text reading to apply eligibility criteria. the initial search yielded 1019 articles, of which 192 were identified as duplicates. After initial screening and full-text reading, 37 articles were analyzed, of which six were deemed eligible to answer the research question. Among the eligible studies, one was a systematic review and five were experimental studies. Experimental studies highlighted positive impacts on areas such as daily routines, behavioral flexibility, and communication. The systematic review provided preliminary evidence that distance education programs for parents can enhance knowledge about ASD, increase adherence to interventions, and foster the development of social and communication skills in children. the findings suggest that remote parent guidance programs may effectively improve knowledge about ASD, increase parent adherence to interventions, and promote the development of social and communication skills in children with ASD.

Despite an aging confined population, the current state of organ transplantation in carceral systems is largely unknown. This scoping review aimed to assess the literature on organ transplantation in populations experiencing incarceration. The review used the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for a scoping review. Included references were published between January 2000 and January 2022 in PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature via EBSCO, EMBASE.com, PsycInfo via EBSCO, Sociological Abstracts via ProQuest, and Scopus. Two reviewers conducted title and abstract screening, full-text review, and data extraction in order to generate common themes. The initial search yielded 3,225 studies, and 2,129 references underwent screening. Seventy studies underwent full-text review, and 10 met inclusion criteria. These studies revealed heterogeneous perspectives and policies by providers and transplant centers regarding transplant consideration of individuals with incarceration history or current involvement. Two studies on a kidney transplant program for patients experiencing incarceration showed transplant as a sustainable and potentially superior option for people who are incarcerated, as compared with chronic hemodialysis. Literature on transplantation for populations experiencing incarceration is sparse. More research is required to understand the demand for transplants and the ethical implications of the heterogeneous perspectives and policies on practice patterns.

Forty-two percent of women who experienced intimate partner violence (IPV) reported that their experience of IPV resulted in an injury. This review aims to review the existing literature from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) on IPV-related injuries as well as identify IPV-related injury patterns and locations. A systematic electronic database search was conducted between August and September 2021 (Prospero ID: CRD42021281519). Five databases yielded 408 articles; 328 remained for title and abstract screening after duplicates were removed. Of the 59 eligible for full-text review, 19 articles were eligible for extraction. After quality assessment, 18 articles were included in the study. Most (56%) studies were observational studies. Studies represented 15 different countries. The majority of the studies (89%) had authors whose institutional affiliation was located in the country where the study took place. Soft tissue injuries were the most commonly reported injury type followed by fractures and burns. The most common injury locations were the head, neck, and face followed by both upper and lower limbs. The most commonly cited injury mechanism was bodily force. The findings of this study echo what has been written in the literature regarding IPV-related injury patterns from high-income countries (HICs). One limitation of this study is that the search only included literature published in English. The injury patterns identified in this article confirm the need for awareness and action on the part of both medical and surgical providers in order to best address IPV in LMICs.

Humans and animals can quickly learn a new strategy when a previously-rewarding strategy is punished. It is difficult to model this with reinforcement learning methods, because they tend to perseverate on previously-learned strategies - a hallmark of impaired response to punishment. Past work has addressed this by augmenting conventional reinforcement learning equations with ad hoc parameters or parallel learning systems. This produces reinforcement learning models that account for reversal learning, but are more abstract, complex, and somewhat detached from neural substrates. Here we use a different approach: we generalize a recently-discovered neuron-level learning rule, on the assumption that it captures a basic principle of learning that may occur at the whole-brain-level. Surprisingly, this gives a new reinforcement learning rule that accounts for adaptation and lose-shift behavior, and uses only the same parameters as conventional reinforcement learning equations. In the new rule, the normal reward prediction errors that drive reinforcement learning are scaled by the likelihood the agent assigns to the action that triggered a reward or punishment. The new rule demonstrates quick adaptation in card sorting and variable Iowa gambling tasks, and also exhibits a human-like paradox-of-choice effect. It will be useful for experimental researchers modeling learning and behavior.

In high-income countries, significant diet-related health inequalities exist between people of different socioeconomic backgrounds. Individuals who face socioeconomic challenges are less likely to meet dietary guidelines, leading to increased incidence and prevalence of morbidity and mortality associated with dietary risk factors. To promote healthy eating, strategies may focus on individual-level factors (e.g., knowledge, skills, and behavior) along with broader societal factors (e.g., social determinants of health). The concept of food literacy is considered an individual-level factor and has been framed as a skill set that individuals must possess to effectively navigate the complexities of the modern food system. Food literacy interventions can be a complementary but effective tool for encouraging healthy eating behavior among diverse populations, including those facing socioeconomic disadvantage. However, there is limited evidence to guide the design of food literacy intervention for vulnerable population groups. In the process of developing an ideal portfolio of solutions and strategies to promote food literacy and healthy eating for people experiencing socioeconomic disadvantage, this systematic scoping review aims to comprehensively examine the effects of food literacy interventions on promoting food literacy behavior and healthy eating in adults (18 years and above) from various socioeconomic groups (SEGs) in high-income countries. The review includes both qualitative and quantitative papers obtained from academic databases, including MEDLINE (via EBSCOhost), Embase, Web of Science, and Google Scholar. In addition to the electronic search, manual forward and backward citation searching will be conducted to identify additional relevant papers. Food literacy interventions will be evaluated across four domains: planning and management, selection, preparation, and consumption. Papers included in the review will be analyzed for process, impact, and outcome evaluation. The main outcome of a food literacy intervention is the modification in eating behavior, while the mechanism for this action will be through impact measure of food literacy behaviors. Implementation factors will be extracted for process evaluation. This review will also include a range of dietary behavior measures, such as diet quality index and dietary intake indicator. The screening process for all citations, full-text articles, and abstract data will be carried out by two reviewers independently. In case of any potential conflicts, they will be resolved through discussion. The quality of quantitative studies will be reviewed using the JBI critical appraisal checklist for analytical cross-sectional studies. The "Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Studies (COREQ)" will be used to report on the quality of qualitative papers. https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/TPNKU.

December 2019 was momentous since it experienced the trajectory of another novel pathogenic HCoV recognized as 2019-nCoV in Wuhan, China, which further unfurled to all countries on the entire globe at lightning speed. The Majority of COVID-19 vaccines are being manufactured using protein subunits, viral vectors, inactivated viruses, as well as DNA and mRNA vaccine platforms. This study aimed to conduct a gender-based review of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among the general population and bibliometric analysis. Various articles related to COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, either based on their title, abstract, or keywords in the search strategy, were reviewed. For COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, we used the definition of "Reluctance to receive safe and recommended available vaccines". Accordingly, 408 articles were included in the complete evaluation and the bibliometric analysis. Data Analysis was done using the Vos viewer Software. The strength of co-cited publications showed strong contributors from the American and Asian continents. The words with the maximum weightage based on their occurrences were female, health personnel, acceptance, social media, socio-economic factors, and ethnic groups, as covered in the red cluster. On the other hand, the Overlay Visualization on the right side, based on the total link strength of MeSH items, showed the largest clusters with items such as females, attitude to health, trust, cross-sectional studies, the acceptance of healthcare, rural population, public health, and parents, which were toward the center. The terms toward the periphery, which had less weightage, need more analysis. Greater perceived susceptibility, risk perception, benefits, and low levels of barriers and self-efficacy were the prime reasons for getting vaccinated, more specifically among females. In most instances, the female being the decision-maker of the family needs to be attended to first as she can further change the mindset of the entire family and carry the future forward.

This essay analyzes from a personalistic bioethics the model of technological progress supported by an autonomy without controls and an imperative that is governed by the maxim: if it can be done, let's do it!, as a necessary and sufficient condition of progress. This puts us on the slippery slope between the technically feasible and the morally lawful. The pioneering work of the philosopher, José Sanmartin Esplugues 2 , urges reflection in the face of a technological profusion that sees the human being as a useful embodied object and offers powers of intervention on human life that were previously unimaginable. The reduction of the person to mere biological-material data opens the door to increasing deshumanization by subordination to the calculations of an instrumental rationalism. Underlying the desire to see ourselves at the top of the world and genetic techniques are the ultimate expression of a longing for human emancipation that aspires to take the reins of evolution through an abstract postbiological imaginary. Sanmartin proposes a model of ethical evaluation and social insertion of technoscientific activity that goes beyond the conventional categories of impact, use and effectiveness to distinguish social, cultural, economic, political and values correlates, in order to embroider a pattern that decides on the means and ends of human life through technologies that are neither innocuous nor neutral. A society without antidotes to manipulation that also teaches us to cultivate utopian dreams about human nature is easily malleable by elites who promise happy worlds and redeem us from our vulnerability.

Primary care plays a central role in most, if not all, health care systems including the care of vulnerable populations such as people who have been incarcerated. Studies linking incarceration records to health care data can improve understanding about health care access following release from prison. This review maps evidence from data-linkage studies about primary care use after prison release. The framework by Arksey and O'Malley and guidance by the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) were used in this review. This scoping review followed methods published in a study protocol. Searches were performed (January 2012-March 2023) in MEDLINE, EMBASE and Web of Science Core Collection using key-terms relating to two areas: (i) people who have been incarcerated and (ii) primary care. Using eligibility criteria, two authors independently screened publication titles and abstracts (step 1), and subsequently, screened full text publications (step 2). Discrepancies were resolved with a third author. Two authors independently charted data from included publications. Findings were mapped by methodology, key findings and gaps in research. The database searches generated 1,050 publications which were screened by title and abstract. Following this, publications were fully screened (n = 63 reviewer 1 and n = 87 reviewer 2), leading to the inclusion of 17 publications. Among the included studies, primary care use after prison release was variable. Early contact with primary care services after prison release (e.g. first month) was positively associated with an increased health service use, but an investigation found that a large proportion of individuals did not access primary care during the first month. The quality of care was found to be largely inadequate (measured continuity of care) for moderate multimorbidity. There were lower levels of colorectal and breast cancer screening among people released from custody. The review identified studies of enhanced primary care programmes for individuals following release from prison, with studies reporting a reduction in reincarceration and criminal justice system costs. This review has suggested mixed evidence regarding primary care use after prison release and has highlighted challenges and areas of suboptimal care. Further research has been discussed in relation to the scoping review findings.

Within dual diagnosis treatment, principles of recovery are increasingly acknowledged. Nevertheless, recovery-oriented rehabilitation often becomes an abstract concept, leaving professionals in various dilemmas. This article examines competing representations of recovery-oriented rehabilitation across Danish dual diagnosis treatment policy and practice from a post-structural, analytical perspective inspired by governmentality and problematization studies. The empirical foundation consists of a qualitative ethnographic study including conducting and examining 12 national policies relevant to contemporary Danish dual diagnosis treatment practice and 23 interviews with health/welfare professionals employed at a Danish in-patient, dual diagnosis rehabilitation unit. The analysis points to a complexity between three sets of competing representations reflected in 1) the conceptual relationship between rehabilitation and recovery, 2) perceptions of knowledge based on experience or evidence, and 3) ideals of optimization and emancipation. Finally, the article discusses convergences between the competing and, at times, conflictual ideals, attempting to explain the conceptual fluffiness, discrepancies, and dilemmas experienced by professionals in dual diagnosis treatment within broader epistemological and ideological debates in social sciences and humanities.

Economic relief programs are strategies designed to sustain societal welfare and population health during a regional or global scale infectious disease outbreak. While economic relief programmes are considered essential during a regional or global health crisis, there is no clear consensus in the literature about their health and non-health benefits and their impact on promoting equity. We conducted a scoping review, searching eight electronic databases from January 01, 2001, to April 3, 2023, using text words and subject headings for recent pathogens (coronavirus (COVID-19), Ebola, Influenza, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), HIV, West Nile, and Zika), and economic relief programs; but restricted eligibility to high-income countries and selected diseases due to volume. Title and abstract screening were conducted by trained reviewers and Distiller AI software. Data were extracted in duplicates by two trained reviewers using a pretested form, and key findings were charted using a narrative approach. We identified 27,263 de-duplicated records, of which 50 were eligible. Included studies were on COVID-19 and Influenza, published between 2014 and 2023. Zero eligible studies were on MERS, SARS, Zika, Ebola, or West Nile Virus. We identified seven program types of which cash transfer (n = 12) and vaccination or testing incentive (n = 9) were most common. Individual-level economic relief programs were reported to have varying degrees of impact on public health measures, and sometimes affected population health outcomes. Expanding paid sick leave programs had the highest number of studies reporting health-related outcomes and positively impacted public health measures (isolation, vaccination uptake) and health outcomes (case counts and the utilization of healthcare services). Equity impact was most often reported for cash transfer programs and incentive for vaccination programs. Positive effects on general well-being and non-health outcomes included improved mental well-being and quality of life, food security, financial resilience, and job security. Our findings suggest that individual-level economic relief programs can have significant impacts on public health measures, population health outcomes and equity. As countries prepare for future pandemics, our findings provide evidence to stakeholders to recognize health equity as a fundamental public health goal when designing pandemic preparedness policies.

No abstract available.

Literature regarding successful aging reflects a wide variety of fields and perspectives. Given the range of definitions and approaches found in published literature, it is important to investigate clusters of topics studied over time. This study aimed to show the change of topic clusters within successful aging studies. The study used topic modeling methodology to analyze vast amounts of abstract data. Among publications collected from Scopus (4,458) and Web of Science (5,187), 5,610 publications were analyzed. Topic clusters were analyzed in 2 ways: by (a) division of time (1960s-1990s, 2000s, 2010s, 2020s) and (b) all years combined. In the 1960s-1990s, 11 topic clusters ranging from health to emotional well-being emerged without any dominant domain. In the 2000s, 2 clusters related to social support and health appeared as major clusters. In the 2010s, 1 topic cluster that included words related to health and social participation was the biggest. In the 2020s, emotional health and social participation appeared again as one of the major clusters and health-related topics started to diverge into subgroups like physical health and mental health. In all years of publications combined, the major cluster involved words that are related to either health or social domains. Results revealed that successful aging has been studied in many fields using multidimensional perspectives. The dominant categories were health and social domains. These findings suggest interprofessional practice, an interdisciplinary approach in research, and multisector involvement in policy.

In the U.S., inequities by race/ethnicity in health outcomes, such as in the HIV epidemic, are long standing but have come to the forefront during the COVID-19 pandemic. There is growing recognition of the role of structural racism in racialized health inequities, yet the conceptualization and operationalization of structural racism in HIV research lags. We conducted a scoping review of existing published literature, between 1999-April 2024, conceptualizing and measuring structural racism's impact among people living with or at risk for HIV in the U.S. Our initial search yielded 236 unique articles, which after title and abstract screening yielded ten articles meeting full text review criteria. We then extracted key parameters, such as conceptualization, method of measurement of structural racism, study aims, design, and findings. Three of the articles were qualitative studies that conceptualized structural racism using (1) the social network model, (2) individual and structural intersectionality and (3) critical race theory. Operationalization of structural racism within the seven quantitative studies fell into three categories: (1) structural level, (2) a scale of experiences of racism, including structural racism, and (3) using explanatory demographic factors as downstream measures of the effects of structural racism. The variance in the conceptualization and operationalization of structural racism highlights the different interpretations of structural racism in its applications to the field of HIV research. Given the vast racial/ethnic inequities in HIV, we propose three overarching suggestions for next steps in improving the conduct of research on structural racism in HIV: (1) we must prioritize measuring racism past the individual and interpersonal levels to consider systemic factors at a societal level that manifest as structural racism to improve HIV outcomes in the U.S., (2) consider intergenerational effects of structural racism through the use of longitudinal data, and (3) broaden the agenda of structural racism to incorporate other systems of oppression. Additionally, broadening the scope of funding and inclusion of more researchers and individuals with lived experiences to support structural racism research to drive the scientific agenda and design of structural-level interventions will not only bolster achieving the U.S. Ending the HIV Epidemic goals but will do so by addressing inequities.

This article provides an overview of the multifaceted landscape of mental health among Black men, shedding light on the unique challenges they face. Black men in the United States confront a complex interplay of sociocultural, historical, and economic factors that influence their mental well-being. This article synthesizes existing research and explores the disparities in mental health outcomes among Black men, delving into the stigmatization of mental health within this community. It also examines the role of systemic racism, socioeconomic factors, and cultural norms in shaping the mental health experiences of Black men. The abstract highlights the importance of culturally competent and community-driven interventions, offering insights into potential strategies to address these disparities. By recognizing the specific issues affecting mental health among Black men, this research contributes to the broader discourse on mental health equity. It underscores the imperative of tailored approaches to support the well-being of this demographic.

Tuberculosis (TB) is a global public health issue. The Southeast Asian region grapples with numerous challenges in TB management, with loss to follow-up (LTFU) emerging as a critical barrier to effective control of the disease. This review synthesised published articles to identify socioeconomic factors contributing to the burden of TB losses for follow-up in Southeast Asia. This scoping review was conducted using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) framework developed by the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI). A total of 10 studies were identified as eligible from the title and abstract review. The mixed method quality appraisal tool (MMAT) version 2018 was used to assess the quality of the included quantitative studies. The results showed that poverty, unemployment, low education levels, migrant status, community support, male gender, substance abuse, and regional disparities significantly impact the occurrence of TB LTFU in Southeast Asia. The findings have significant implications for public health in Southeast Asia. Addressing these socioeconomic barriers through community-based strategies, educational initiatives, and policy reforms is vital for improving treatment outcomes and overall public health.

Parents of children diagnosed with severe-to-profound sensorineural hearing loss may experience a range of emotions owing to a lack of knowledge and experience in dealing with such children. However, most audiology clinics only attend to children with deaf and hard of hearing (DHH) and not their parents. Thus, parents' emotional and support needs are frequently excluded from the intervention sessions, making their own needs invisible. This study aimed to identify academic and clinical instruments used for assessing parental emotional status (PES) and ecological support systems (ESS) in early intervention and determine the factors affecting PES and ESS among parents of DHH children undergoing cochlear implantation. This scoping review followed the rigorous methodological framework; searched Medline (via OVID and EMBSCO), Scopus, and Web of Science; and selected studies relevant to validated instruments used to evaluate the PES and ESS among parents of DHH children below 6 years old. Before selecting and reviewing relevant articles, two reviewers independently assessed article titles and abstracts from the data sources. Two reviewers verified half of the first reviewer's extracted data. Overall, 3060 articles were retrieved from the database search, and 139 were selected for full-text review following title and abstract reviews. Ultimately, this study included 22 articles. Among them, 23 and 12 validated instruments, most of which are generic measures, were used for assessing PES and ESS, respectively. Three condition-specific instruments were identified and designed to be administered following cochlear implantation surgery. This study revealed that healthcare professionals who interact with parents of DHH children lack the necessary instruments, particularly for parents of children undergoing cochlear implantation surgery. Therefore, it is necessary to develop condition-specific instruments for parents who consider cochlear implantation for their children.

We articulate an intergenerational model of positive psychosocial development that centers storytelling in an ecological framework and is motivated by an orientation toward social justice. We bring together diverse literature (e.g., racial-ethnic socialization, family storytelling, narrative psychology) to argue that the intergenerational transmission of stories about one's group is  Understanding one's identity as part of a group with shared history and culture that has existed through time is important for positive psychological functioning. This is especially true for marginalized communities for whom identity-relevant knowledge is often erased, silenced, or distorted in mainstream public discourses (e.g., school curricula, news media, television, and film). To compensate for these limitations around access, one channel for the transmission of this knowledge is through oral storytelling between generations of elders and youth. Contemporary psychological science has often assumed that such storytelling occurs within families, but when families cannot or would not share such knowledge, youth suffer. We present a model of intergenerational storytelling that expands our ideas around who counts as "family" and how knowledge can be transmitted through alternative channels, using LGBTQ+ communities as a case example.

Addressing gender inequities could be key to the elimination of vertical transmission of HIV. Women experiencing intimate partner violence (IPV) might be at an increased risk of vertical transmission due to their vulnerability to HIV acquisition and barriers to access to and retention in care. Sub-Saharan Africa, where IPV burden is among the highest globally, accounts for most new paediatric HIV infections. We aimed to examine the proportion of excess vertical transmission attributable to IPV in this region. In this modelling analysis, we created a probability tree model of vertical HIV transmission among women aged 15-49 years in 46 African countries. We estimated the proportion of vertical transmission attributable to past-year physical or sexual IPV, or both, as an age-standardised population attributable fraction (PAF) and as excess vertical transmission risk per 1000 births among women experiencing IPV. We incorporated perinatal and postnatal vertical transmission among women who acquired HIV before pregnancy, during pregnancy, and during breastfeeding. Fertility, HIV prevalence, HIV incidence, antiretroviral therapy (ART) uptake, and ART retention varied in the model by women's IPV experience. The model was parameterised using UNAIDS' 2023 Spectrum model data, WHO's Global Database on Violence Against Women, and the peer-reviewed literature. Uncertainty intervals (95% UI) were calculated through 1000 Monte Carlo simulations. Across 46 countries 13% (95% UI 6-21) of paediatric HIV infections in 2022 were attributed to IPV, corresponding to over 22 000 paediatric infections. The PAF ranged from 4% (2-7) in Niger to 28% (13-43) in Uganda. The PAF was highest among girls aged 15-19 years (20%, 8-33) and lowest among women aged 45-49 years (6%, 3-9). In southern Africa, where women's HIV prevalence is highest (23%), IPV led to 11 (5-20) additional infections per 1000 births among women affected by IPV. IPV might be responsible for one in eight paediatric HIV infections in sub-Saharan Africa. Ending IPV could accelerate vertical transmission elimination, especially among young women who bear the highest burden of violence. Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Canada Research Chair, and Fonds de recherche du Québec-Santé. For the French, Georgian and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To examine the challenges faced by Asian working mothers with a focus on re-entry to the workplace. In addition, we highlight potential supports that retain women in the workforce. A systematic review was conducted according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) recommendations and registered with PROSPERO database (CRD42022341130). Three independent reviewers were involved in the study selection to screen the search results sequentially by title, abstract, and full text using predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The methodological quality of each article was assessed via the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme (CASP) tool. We analysed a total of 36 studies conducted across different regions: 30 from the East and 6 from Southeast Asia. Among these studies, 20 were quantitative in nature, 15 were qualitative, and one intervention. The 36 studies cover five themes: 1) policies, 2) external support sources, 3) external pressure, 4) breastfeeding and 5) health status. Within each theme the same factor can have a positive or negative impact on the mother depending on her having a pro-career or pro-family mindset. Companies can take various initiatives to support working mothers, such as providing facilities for expressing breast milk at the workplace, educating staff to promote breastfeeding and accommodate childcare needs, and extending maternity leaves. However, there is a lack of literature that directly addresses the barriers and concrete support available to working mothers in Asia, beyond the scope of breastfeeding. Our findings underscore several obstacles that can impede a woman's seamless return to work. Pro-family and pro-career mothers have differing needs that cannot be addressed at the same time. There is a lack of comprehensive understanding regarding effective strategies or interventions that can support a positive reintegration into the workforce.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune condition with significant physical, mental, psychosocial and economic impacts. A main driver of SLE morbidity and mortality is cardiovascular disease (CVD). Both SLE and CVD exhibit disparities related to gender, race and other social dimensions linked with biological outcomes and health trajectories. However, the biospsychosocial dimensions of CVD in SLE populations remain poorly understood. The objective of this study was to systematically investigate the existing literature around known social factors influencing the development of CVD in SLE. A scoping review protocol was developed according to Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping reviews guidelines. The search strategy encompassed three main concepts: SLE, CVD and social factors. Four databases were searched (PubMed, SCOPUS, PsychINFO and CINAHL). 682 studies were identified for screening. Articles were screened in two phases (title/abstract and full text) to determine whether they fulfilled the selection criteria. Nine studies were included after screening. All were conducted in the USA between 2009 and 2017. Six studies (67%) were cross-sectional and three (33%) were longitudinal. Most employed SLE cohorts (n=7, 78%) and two drew from healthcare databases (n=2; 22%). We identified five main themes encompassing social factors: socioeconomic status and education (n=5; 56%), race and/or ethnicity (n=7; 78%), mental health (n=2; 22%), gender (n=3; 33%) and healthcare quality and/or insurance (n=2; 22%). Overall, low income, fewer years of education, black race and/or ethnicity, depression, male gender, lack of insurance and healthcare fragmentation were all associated with CVD risk factors and outcomes in SLE. While several social factors contribute to CVD in SLE populations, considerable gaps remain as many social determinants remain un(der)explored. There is rich opportunity to integrate social theory, advance conceptualisations of race and/or ethnicity and gender, expand investigations of mental health and explore novel geographical contexts. In healthcare policy and practice, identified social factors should be considered for SLE populations during decision-making and treatment, and education resources should be targeted for these groups.

Sexual minority men (SMM) are disproportionately affected by HIV. Although pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is an effective way of reducing HIV incidence, PrEP use has remained relatively low. Social support may be one effective factor in increasing PrEP use among SMM, but the association between social support and PrEP use/adherence is not well understood. The objective of this paper was to summarize the current literature on the association of social support and PrEP use among SMM in the United States. A systematic search was conducted using six different databases MEDLINE / PubMed, PsycINFO, Cochrane CENTRAL, Google Scholar, Embase, and Web of Science using terms established from keywords and medical subject headings (MeSH) terms before being adapted to each database. Data were extracted for key study factors (e.g., study population, geographic location, study design) and main findings. This search produced eleven articles: ten manuscripts and one conference abstract. Of these, two were randomized control trials, two were interventions, three were qualitative, and four were cross-sectional. The studies were widespread across the country, but most were in major metropolitan areas. From the articles included in this review, findings were inconsistent in the association between social support; some studies showed null findings, others that only certain sources of social support were significant, and others that there was a significant association between social support and PrEP use. This review highlights the complexity of the relationship between social support and PrEP use among SMM, indicating the need for further research to identify specific types and sources of support that effectively enhance PrEP uptake and adherence. Targeted interventions based on these insights could significantly reduce HIV incidence in the population.

The purpose of this scoping review is to identify strategies from existing literature, for school-based professionals to share with parents, that may be used on a family-level to help the recovery from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on pediatric mental health. This scoping review consists of a comprehensive PubMed, CINAHL, and Google Scholar database search. Studies published between 2020 and 2023 that were written in English, originated in the United States, and evaluated pediatric mental health in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic were considered for inclusion in the scoping review. One researcher independently conducted the PubMed, CINAHL, and Google Scholar literature search. Subsequently, results were reviewed independently by two additional researchers. Title and abstract review were conducted for 2563 articles. After excluding studies not written in English, studies with international origin, and studies which were not relevant to this scoping review, 101 studies remained for full-text review. After full-text review, 32 studies (31.68%) were deemed relevant and concordant with the inclusion criteria and were included in this scoping review. We identified five prominent themes: 1) maintaining daily life and routines, 2) the importance of physical activity and the pandemic's effect on student athletes' mental health, 3) the use of screen time, 4) the effect of parent and caregiver stress on their children's mental health, and 5) the effect of pandemic-related health disparities and racism on pediatric mental health. This scoping review focused on interventions and practices which can be implemented at the family level to help children and adolescents recover from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on their mental health.

Women who engage in sex work in sub-Saharan Africa have a high risk of acquiring HIV infection. HIV incidence has declined among all women in sub-Saharan Africa, but trends among women who engage in sex work are poorly characterised. We synthesised data on HIV incidence among women who engage in sex work in sub-Saharan Africa and compared these with the total female population to understand relative incidence and trends over time. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Global Health, and Google Scholar from Jan 1, 1990, to Feb 28, 2024, and grey literature for studies that reported empirical estimates of HIV incidence among women who engage in sex work in any sub-Saharan Africa country. We calculated incidence rate ratios (IRRs) compared with total female population incidence estimates matched for age, district, and year, did a meta-analysis of IRRs, and used a continuous mixed-effects model to estimate changes in IRR over time. From 32 studies done between 1985 and 2020, 2194 new HIV infections were observed among women who engage in sex work over 51 490 person-years. Median HIV incidence was 4·3 per 100 person years (IQR 2·8-7·0 per 100 person-years). Incidence among women who engage in sex work was eight times higher than matched total population women (IRR 7·8 [95% CI 5·1-11·8]), with larger relative difference in western and central Africa (19·9 [9·6-41·0]) than in eastern and southern Africa (4·9 [3·4-7·1]). There was no evidence that IRRs changed over time (IRR per 5 years: 0·9 [0·7-1·2]). Across sub-Saharan Africa, HIV incidence among women who engage in sex work remains disproportionately high compared with the total female population. However, constant relative incidence over time indicates HIV incidence among women who engage in sex work has declined at a similar rate. Location-specific data for women who engage in sex work incidence are sparse, but improved surveillance and standardisation of incidence measurement approaches could fill these gaps. Sustained and enhanced HIV prevention for women who engage in sex work is crucial to address continuing inequalities and ensure declines in new HIV infections. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, UK Research and Innovation, National Institutes of Health. For the French translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

The significant burden of home injuries has become a growing concern that affect thousands of people every year across Canada. This study examined the relationship between neighbourhood deprivation and unintentional injuries occurring at home leading to hospitalizations in British Columbia (BC) between 2015 and 2019. This study used de-identified hospitalization data on unintentional home-related injuries from the Discharge Abstract Database (DAD) and population data for each dissemination area from Statistics Canada's 2016 Census Profiles. Hospitalization rates were computed for unintentional home-related injuries across four dimensions specified in the Canadian Index of Multiple Deprivation (CIMD) for BC. For three CIMD dimensions (situational vulnerability, economic dependency, and residential instability), unintentional home injury rates were higher in areas with higher deprivation, while the inverse was observed for ethno-cultural diversity. Understanding socio-economic disparities within neighbourhoods enables injury prevention partners to identify vulnerable populations and prioritize the development and implementation of evidence-based injury prevention interventions.

To examine the concept of self-esteem among African American and Latinx adolescents with overweight and/or obesity and depressive symptoms in the United States. Using key terms in CINAHL, PubMed, and PsycINFO databases, an initial search yielded 371 articles; after examining title, abstract, and full text, 33 articles remained. The concept of adolescent self-esteem was analyzed using Rodger's evolutionary method. Several antecedents of self-esteem in this context were identified, including bullying, negative portrayal in the media, stressors and hassles, low socioeconomic status, dieting, and family dietary influences. Attributes identified were body image and misperception, body image dissatisfaction, diminished social status, and isolation. Consequences included stigma, somatic complaints, decreased earnings over a lifetime, decreased quality of life, lower educational attainment over a lifetime, and increased substance use. Increased self-esteem, increased number of friends, and in-depth friendships were associated with a lower risk of being overweight or obese. Adolescent self-esteem varied based on gender, racial and ethnic group, and changed over time in the African American population but remained static in the Latinx population. [

Harlow's seminal work on the nature of attachment focused on the importance of warm, responsive, and loving relationships in children's healthy development. While the need for love and care is arguably universal, the ways in which these emotions are expressed can vary across cultural contexts. We examined how Chinese American parents' expressions of love were associated with children's attachment security. A total of 110 Chinese American immigrant parent-child dyads (children 7-11 years old, 49% girls) participated in 3-min conversations in which parents were instructed to communicate love and care. Proposition-level analyses in speech (total 8825 propositions) identified three types of affection: training (guan and chiao shun); relational affection (qin); and validation (acceptance and encouragement of child's own expression of emotion, thoughts, and behaviors). Higher training was observed in parents with lower American orientation and lower income. Higher relational affection was observed in parents with lower income. Higher validation was observed in parents with higher income. Using path analyses, training and validation were found to be positively associated with children's attachment security beyond parenting styles. Effects of parents' relational affection were moderated by children's American orientation. Results demonstrate how immigrant parents draw on multiple cultural scripts to express love and care. These findings expand traditional concepts of parental love in immigrant families and illustrate how bicultural expressions of love can shape attachment security in middle childhood. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/HqUfIDxkFsE RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Analyses of parent-child discussions identified three parental affection styles (i.e., training, relational affection, and validation) as expressions of love and care in Chinese American immigrant families. Training and validation were positively associated with children's attachment security. Relational affection was associated with lower attachment security for children with higher American cultural orientation, suggesting the effects of parent-child expressions of love are shaped by acculturation.

Medical students are challenged with a limited number of research opportunities to help prepare for an exceptionally competitive process for matching in an orthopaedic residency. The aim of this study was to assess the 3-year experience of our 8 to 10-week remote summer research program in support of underrepresented students with an interest in orthopaedic surgery. We received over 500 applications, and a total of 37 students (7.4%) participated in the program over the past 3 years. A total of 14 faculty mentors were matched with 1 or 2 students each. The research program delivered a curriculum including (1) research-related topics led by a content expert; (2) weekly faculty lectures discussing topics including orthopaedic conditions, diversity in orthopaedics, leadership, and work-life balance; and (3) a minimum of 8 weeks of mentorship experience with an assigned faculty and a peer mentor. Students and faculty were surveyed to measure skill progression, research productivity, and program satisfaction. Program participants represented a range of race/ethnic backgrounds and research experience levels. The cohort included a high rate of female (51%) and Black (35%) participants relative to representation of these groups in orthopaedic surgery. Postprogram surveys indicated that all participants improved their research skills, orthopaedic interest, and mentorship/networking skills. Most students (89%) stated that they were adequately matched to their faculty mentor. Most students (79%) indicated that they contributed to either manuscript or conference abstract as coauthors. The study findings suggest improved research skills, interest, and confidence to pursue orthopaedic residency and mentorship/networks in the field. Our long-term vision is to improve the accessibility and quality of mentorship for underrepresented students to foster an equitable pathway into the field of orthopaedic surgery.

Doctors and nurses suffer different mental health conditions following traumatic incidents. We systematically synthesized existing evidence on the prevalence of anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and their associated risk factors among doctors and nurses following mass casualty incidents (MCIs). Systematic review. Seven databases were searched (2010-2022) with peer-reviewed articles in English using the predefined keywords. Two reviewers screened the titles, abstracts, and full texts using the eligibility criteria and extracted data independently. We used the National Institutes of Health Quality Assessment Tools (NIH-QAT) and the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme checklist (CASP) to measure the quality appraisal of the included studies. A total of 5170 articles were retrieved, and 2512 articles were assessed by title and abstract (53 were eligible for full-text review). Finally, we included 19 studies. Most were assessed as of fair quality with a considerable risk of bias. PTSD was the highest-reported mental health condition. Nurses reported higher mental conditions, particularly PTSD. Two sets of risk factors (personal and workplace) are associated with anxiety, depression, and PTSD were found. MCIs have a significant impact on the mental health outcomes of emergency health workers. Preventive measures should be designed considering the high-risk group, personal, and organizational risk factors of mental health outcomes.

This study aimed to investigate the experiential meaning of child-rearing for marriage immigrant women in Korea in the context of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Using the hermeneutic descriptive phenomenology framework developed by Colaizzi, 10 marriage immigrant women rearing preschool and school-age children were invited through purposive and snowball sampling from two multicultural support centers in Korea. The participants were rearing one or two children, and their original nationalities were Vietnamese, Japanese, Cambodian, and Chinese. Individual in-depth, face-to-face, semi-structured interviews were conducted from September 1 to November 30, 2021. We extracted significant statements from the transcripts, transformed these into abstract formulations, and organized them into theme clusters and themes to authentically capture the essence of the participants' subjective experiences. Four theme clusters with 14 themes were derived. The four theme clusters identified were "navigating child healthcare alone," "guilt for not providing a social experience," "worry about media-dependent parenting," and "feelings of incompleteness and exclusion." This study explored the perspectives of mothers raising children as marriage migrant women who experienced physical and emotional health crises due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings underscore that marriage immigrant women encountered heightened challenges in managing their children's health and well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic due to linguistic and cultural barriers limiting access to healthcare and information. Additionally, these women experienced considerable emotional stress from perceived inadequacies in providing a holistic social and developmental environment for their children under extensive social restrictions.

Learning words for numbers, shapes, spatial relations, and magnitudes-"math talk"-relies on input from caregivers. Language interactions between caregivers and children are situated in activity contexts and likely affected by available materials. Here, we examined how play materials influence the math talk directed to and produced by young children. We video-recorded parents (mothers and fathers; English- and/or Spanish-speaking) and their 24- to 36-month-olds during play with four sets of materials, transcribed and coded types of parent and toddler math words/phrases, and assessed toddlers' understanding of number, shape, and spatial relations terms. Categories of math words varied by materials. Numeracy talk (e.g., "one," "two," "first," "second") was more frequent during interactions with a picture book and toy grocery shopping set than with a shape sorter or magnet board; the reverse held for spatial talk (e.g., "out," "bottom," "up," "circle"). Parent math talk predicted toddler math talk, and both parent and toddler math talk predicted toddlers' understanding of spatial and number words. Different materials provide unique opportunities for toddlers to learn abstract math words during interactions with caregivers, and such interactions support early math cognition.

Electrical discharge weapons (EDWs) are increasingly used by law enforcement around the globe as a less lethal option to firearms. Concerns have been raised about their use, inter alia from the UN Committee Against Torture (UNCAT). The purpose of this manuscript is to provide an overview of case studies to assess the health consequences of EDW exposure. Medline and Pubmed were searched for case studies on EDWs without restriction on language or date. Screening was first at abstract level and then at full article level. Articles were excluded if they were not case studies, concerned children under 15 years old or were off topic. A PRISMA flow dia-gram was created. A total of 71 studies were included, and they demonstrate a wide range of health consequences from minor injuries to lethal conditions. The injuries can be classified as direct and indirect, i.e., related to the use itself (e.g., penetration by darts) and related to falls and burns following neuromuscular incapacitation and ignition of flammable fluids. Cardiac incidents - some being fatal - as well as eye injury were the health consequences found most reported. Description of pain and mental suffering related to EDW exposure was lacking in the reviewed case studies. Dis-cussion: Evidence in the reviewed case reports demonstrates that EDWs have in fact led to physical and most likely mental suffering and even death, notwithstanding the epidemiological limitations of case reports in establishing causality at population level. When assessing patients and when doc-umenting cases where persons may have been exposed to EDWs, including torture and ill-treatment cases, it is important to be aware of the different types of health consequences.

This research note highlights an emerging transdisciplinary research method-photovoice-and why it is particularly suited for sociological studies of children and youth. Traditional social science data collection methods can be limited in their ability to capture both the depth and breadth of childhood experiences and children's perceptions of their experiences. We describe an emerging method, photovoice, that is used more frequently in other disciplines, and its suitability for sociologically studying youth and children. We describe the limitations of traditional social science methods and how photovoice can help overcome some of these limitations. Photovoice engages participants as lived experts who contribute to both the data collection and analysis in an individual and collective manner. Through taking photos and discussing their meaning, participants can share abstract feelings and discuss sensitive topics in an imaginative format and express themselves creatively. We describe how previous research has used photovoice to work with youth from vulnerable circumstances and those who have experienced trauma as well as demonstrate how photovoice is well situated to bolster the tenets of sociological research.

When Old People Suffer Because of the Sex of the Young: A Commentary on Korte, A. & Tschuschke, V. (2023). The Media's Stranglehold on Sturm und Drang - The Sorrows of Generation Z Regarding Sex and Gender 

Reports of children's engagement in active transportation outline low participation rates in many countries despite many associated mental, physical, and social health benefits. One of the main contributors to this phenomenon is a cited lack of education and knowledge among children regarding active travel (AT), specifically road safety. To address this issue, the aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of an online road safety education intervention to promote AT among children and their parents. Applying the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) for intervention development, implementation, and evaluation, we designed and assessed a four-module online road safety education intervention with a sample of 57 parent-child dyads using a 2 Main intervention feasibility findings include positive and critical feedback on the program's content and design, and moderate participant engagement as reflected by program retention and completion rates. With respect to the preliminary intervention effectiveness on children, a significant improvement in road safety knowledge scores was observed for groups that feature the "wheeling safety and skills" module. Slight improvements in AT knowledge scores across all the intervention groups were observed, but were not of significance. Preliminary intervention effectiveness on select parental AT practices and perceptions saw significant improvements in some groups. Groups that featured the 'wheeling safety and skills' module exhibited significantly higher guided choice scores upon completion of the program than those who did not receive this component. The MOST framework allowed us to design and evaluate the feasibility and preliminary effectiveness of an online road safety education intervention. The developed intervention has demonstrated that it has the potential to improve children's road safety knowledge and some areas of parental AT practices and perceptions, to which improvements may be attributed to the inclusion of the "wheeling safety and skills" module, suggesting that the targeted focus on cycling skills is a prioritized area. AT programming and practice implications are discussed. Future research is encouraged to refine modules to better reflect the priorities of children and parents and to test these refined components among larger samples. 9,391 (excludes abstract, tables, figures, abbreviations, and references).

Evidence suggests that having a chronic physical illness (CPI; eg, asthma, diabetes, and epilepsy) is an independent risk factor for suicidality (ie, suicidal ideation or attempts) among youth. Less is known about the mechanisms linking CPI and suicidality. Some evidence suggests that mental illness (eg, depression and anxiety) or neurodevelopmental disorder (eg, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) mediates or moderates the CPI-suicidality association. Missing from the knowledge base is information on the association between having co-occurring CPI and mental illness or neurodevelopmental disorder (MIND) on youth suicidality. This study uses epidemiological data from the 2019 Canadian Health Survey of Children and Youth (CHSCY) to study the intersection of CPI, MIND, and suicidality in youth. We will estimate prevalence, identify predictors, and investigate psychosocial and service use outcomes for youth with CPI-MIND comorbidity versus other morbidity groups (ie, healthy, CPI only, and MIND only). Conducted by Statistics Canada, the CHSCY collected data from 47,850 children (aged 1-17 years) and their primary caregiving parent. Measures of youth CPI, MIND, family environment, and sociodemographics are available using youth and parent informants. Information on psychiatric services use is available via parent report and linkage to national administrative health data found in the National Ambulatory Care Reporting System and the Discharge Abstract Database, which allow the investigation of hospital-based mental health services (eg, emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and length of stay in hospital). Questions about suicidality were restricted to youths aged 15-17 years (n=6950), which form our analytic sample. Weighted regression-based analyses will account for the complex survey design. Our study began in November 2023, funded by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (SRG-0-008-22). Access to the linked CHSCY microdata file was granted in May 2024. Initial examination of CHSCY data shows that approximately 20% (1390/6950) of youth have CPI, 7% (490/6950) have MIND, 7% (490/6950) seriously considered suicide in the past year, and 3% (210/6950) had attempted suicide anytime during their life. Findings will provide estimates of suicidality among youth with CPI-MIND comorbidity, which will inform intervention planning to prevent loss of life in this vulnerable population. Modeling correlates of suicidality will advance understanding of the relative and joint effects of factors at multiple levels-information needed to target prevention efforts and services. Understanding patterns of psychiatric service use is vital to understanding access and barriers to services. This will inform whether use matches need, identifying opportunities to advise policy makers about upstream resources to prevent suicidality. Importantly, findings will provide robust baseline of information on the link between CPI-MIND comorbidity and suicidality in youth, which can be used by future studies to address questions related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated countermeasures in this vulnerable population of youth. DERR1-10.2196/57103.

Termination of resuscitation (TOR) rules may help guide prehospital decisions to stop resuscitation, with potential effects on patient outcomes and health resource use. Rules with high sensitivity risk increasing inappropriate transport of nonsurvivors, while rules without excellent specificity risk missed survivors. Further examination of the performance of TOR rules in estimating survival of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is needed. To determine whether TOR rules can accurately identify patients who will not survive an OHCA. For this systematic review and meta-analysis, the MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science databases were searched from database inception up to January 11, 2024. There were no restrictions on language, publication date, or time frame of the study. Two reviewers independently screened records, first by title and abstract and then by full text. Randomized clinical trials, case-control studies, cohort studies, cross-sectional studies, retrospective analyses, and modeling studies were included. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses were reviewed to identify primary studies. Studies predicting outcomes other than death, in-hospital studies, animal studies, and non-peer-reviewed studies were excluded. Data were extracted by one reviewer and checked by a second. Two reviewers assessed risk of bias using the Revised Quality Assessment Tool for Diagnostic Accuracy Studies. Cochrane Screening and Diagnostic Tests Methods Group recommendations were followed when conducting a bivariate random-effects meta-analysis. This review followed the Preferred Reporting Items for a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Diagnostic Test Accuracy Studies (PRISMA-DTA) statement and is registered with the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (CRD42019131010). Sensitivity and specificity tables with 95% CIs and bivariate summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) curves were produced. Estimates of effects at different prevalence levels were calculated. These estimates were used to evaluate the practical implications of TOR rule use at different prevalence levels. This review included 43 nonrandomized studies published between 1993 and 2023, addressing 29 TOR rules and involving 1 125 587 cases. Fifteen studies reported the derivation of 20 TOR rules. Thirty-three studies reported external data validations of 17 TOR rules. Seven TOR rules had data to facilitate meta-analysis. One clinical study was identified. The universal termination of resuscitation rule had the best performance, with pooled sensitivity of 0.62 (95% CI, 0.54-0.71), pooled specificity of 0.88 (95% CI, 0.82-0.94), and a diagnostic odds ratio of 20.45 (95% CI, 13.15-31.83). In this review, there was insufficient robust evidence to support widespread implementation of TOR rules in clinical practice. These findings suggest that adoption of TOR rules may lead to missed survivors and increased resource utilization.

A trademark's image is usually the first type of indirect contact between a consumer and a product or a service. Companies rely on graphical trademarks as a symbol of quality and instant recognition, seeking to protect them from copyright infringements. A popular defense mechanism is graphical searching, where an image is compared to a large database to find potential conflicts with similar trademarks. Despite not being a new subject, image retrieval state-of-the-art lacks reliable solutions in the Industrial Property (IP) sector, where datasets are practically unrestricted in content, with abstract images for which modeling human perception is a challenging task. Existing Content-based Image Retrieval (CBIR) systems still present several problems, particularly in terms of efficiency and reliability. In this paper, we propose a new CBIR system that overcomes these major limitations. It follows a modular methodology, composed of a set of individual components tasked with the retrieval, maintenance and gradual optimization of trademark image searching, working on large-scale, unlabeled datasets. Its generalization capacity is achieved using multiple feature descriptions, weighted separately, and combined to represent a single similarity score. Images are evaluated for general features, edge maps, and regions of interest, using a method based on Watershedding K-Means segments. We propose an image recovery process that relies on a new similarity measure between all feature descriptions. New trademark images are added every day to ensure up-to-date results. The proposed system showcases a timely retrieval speed, with 95% of searches having a 10 second presentation speed and a mean average precision of 93.7%, supporting its applicability to real-word IP protection scenarios.

Mental health issues and parenting difficulties in the perinatal period are common, and have significant negative impacts on individuals, families, and broader society. Community-based peer support programs might be an effective adjunct to standard mental health interventions in perinatal mental health issues, specifically where low-cost interventions are required, or access to professional care is limited. A systematic review will be undertaken. Searches will be conducted on four electronic databases (Pubmed, Embase, Cinahl, and PsycINFO), using terms related to perinatal mental health and peer support. Literature will be screened by title and abstract and then by full text. Selected studies will be evaluated using the Quality Assessment with Diverse Studies (QuADS) tool. Data relevant to community-based perinatal peer support intervention characteristics and outcomes will be extracted, and synthesised narratively. This review will contribute to the existing evidence about perinatal mental health peer support, by synthesising information about community-based interventions specifically. The findings will be used to inform the design, implementation, and evaluation of a community-based perinatal mental health peer support program in urban and rural/remote hospital and health services in Australia. Systematic review registration: CRD42023451568.

Racism and implicit bias underlie disparities in health care access, treatment, and outcomes. An emerging area of study in examining health disparities is the use of stigmatizing language in the electronic health record (EHR). We sought to summarize the existing literature related to stigmatizing language documented in the EHR. To this end, we conducted a scoping review to identify, describe, and evaluate the current body of literature related to stigmatizing language and clinician notes. We searched PubMed, Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), and Embase databases in May 2022, and also conducted a hand search of IEEE to identify studies investigating stigmatizing language in clinical documentation. We included all studies published through April 2022. The results for each search were uploaded into EndNote X9 software, de-duplicated using the Bramer method, and then exported to Covidence software for title and abstract screening. Studies (N = 9) used cross-sectional (n = 3), qualitative (n = 3), mixed methods (n = 2), and retrospective cohort (n = 1) designs. Stigmatizing language was defined via content analysis of clinical documentation (n = 4), literature review (n = 2), interviews with clinicians (n = 3) and patients (n = 1), expert panel consultation, and task force guidelines (n = 1). Natural language processing was used in four studies to identify and extract stigmatizing words from clinical notes. All of the studies reviewed concluded that negative clinician attitudes and the use of stigmatizing language in documentation could negatively impact patient perception of care or health outcomes. The current literature indicates that NLP is an emerging approach to identifying stigmatizing language documented in the EHR. NLP-based solutions can be developed and integrated into routine documentation systems to screen for stigmatizing language and alert clinicians or their supervisors. Potential interventions resulting from this research could generate awareness about how implicit biases affect communication patterns and work to achieve equitable health care for diverse populations.

The objective of the scoping review was to explore the evidence and describe what is known about perinatal bereavement care guidelines provided within health care facilities prior to discharge. Additionally, the review sought to identify what is known about parents' mental health outcomes, and map these outcomes to the characteristics of the bereavement care guidelines. Perinatal loss poses a serious risk of emotional trauma and mental health sequelae. Conflicting evidence for international bereavement care guidelines and inconsistent implementation, a lack of experimental studies, and older syntheses with a limited focus or population made synthesis complex. Therefore, a scoping review was undertaken to determine the breadth and depth of the existing literature on this topic. Sources pertaining to bereavement care guidelines used in health care facilities immediately after perinatal loss (miscarriage, stillbirth, or neonatal death) and parents' mental health outcomes were included. Sources pertaining to family members other than parents, perinatal loss occurring outside of a health care facility, and physical care guidelines were excluded. The review was conducted using JBI methodology for scoping reviews. The team considered quantitative and qualitative studies, practice guidelines, case reports, expert opinions, systematic reviews, professional organization websites, and gray literature. CINAHL (EBSCOhost), PsycINFO (EBSCOhost), SocINDEX (EBSCOhost), Cochrane Library, JBI Evidence-based Practice Database (Ovid), Embase, PubMed, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses A&I (ProQuest), Web of Science Core Collection, and Epistemonikos were the major databases searched. OpenGrey, Google Scholar, and organizational websites were also searched. The earliest empirical study publication found (1976) served as the starting date limit. After pilot-testing the screening process, data were extracted, collated, and presented in narrative format as well as in tables and figures. The search was first conducted in September and October 2021, and an updated search was performed on February 9, 2023. The results provide a broad view of bereavement care guidelines to support grieving parents' mental health. The included sources (n=195) were comprised of 28 syntheses, 96 primary studies, and 71 literature review/text and opinion. From the studies that specified the number of participants, 47,598 participants were included. Key characteristics of bereavement care guidelines were categorized as i) making meaning/memories, ii) good communication, iii) shared decision-making, iv) effective emotional and social support, and v) organizational response. Parents' reported mental health outcomes included both negative outcomes, such as depression, anxiety, anger, and helplessness, and positive outcomes, including coping, healing, recovery, and well-being. Conceptually, the characteristics of published guidelines are fairly consistent across settings, with cultural variations in specific components of the guidelines. Despite the exponential increase in research on bereavement care after perinatal loss, there is a gap in research pertaining to certain characteristics of bereavement care guidelines that are accepted as best practice to support parents' mental health outcomes. This review provides support for future research given the trauma and mental health risks following perinatal loss. Policies ensuring consistent and appropriate implementation of bereavement care guidelines are essential to improve parents' mental health outcomes. A Spanish-language version of the abstract of this review is available: http://links.lww.com/SRX/A66 .

Secondary traumatic stress (STS) is the indirect traumatisation of a person through the stress of helping or knowing about other's trauma. Burnout is gradual exhaustion in response to long-term work-related stress. Both have negative psychological, physiological and/or organisational consequences; however, the existing research in forensic health care professionals (FHCPs) is limited. One study explored STS in FCHPs and found that lower psychological flexibility (ability to adapt) was a predictor of greater STS. Existing research on burnout in FHCPs suggests that individual differences, such as the ways in which we cope (talking to people vs. using substances), may predict burnout levels. Prevalence findings add to the recent evidence base, which also found moderate levels of burnout. However, this study is the first to find high levels of secondary traumatic stress in FHCPs. Similar to existing literature, the study's findings suggest that FHCP's with lower levels of psychological flexibility and more maladaptive coping strategies may experience greater STS and burnout symptoms, while staff who use more adaptive coping strategies may experience less burn-out. Unexpectedly, staff who reported a more anxious attachment style were burnt-out; however, there are limitations to this finding. Policies and practices in forensic settings should reflect the risk of STS and burnout. Practices or interventions should enhance adaptive coping strategies and psychological flexibility, such as Resilience Enhancement Programmes or Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT). INTRODUCTION: Secondary traumatic stress (STS) and burnout literature in inpatient forensic health care professionals (FHCPs) is limited, despite the psychological, physiological and organisational consequences. This study aimed to further this limited evidence base, investigating predictors of STS and burnout in FHCPs. 98 healthcare professionals working in two UK forensic inpatient settings completed measures assessing: burnout, STS, psychological flexibility, coping style, attachment style and a demographic questionnaire recording length of service and the sex of staff. Results indicated high STS and moderate burnout levels. The main predictors of STS and burnout were poorer psychological flexibility and greater maladaptive coping styles, whereas lower burnout was predicted by greater adaptive coping styles and an anxious attachment style. This study has contributed towards a limited evidence base and indicates poorer psychological flexibility and greater maladaptive coping may be risk factors for STS and burnout in FHCPs, whereas greater maladaptive coping may be a protective factor. The findings suggest that interventions such as Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) and coping skills interventions, may offer protective benefits to inpatient forensic healthcare professionals.

Australia has been undergoing a major aged care reform process since 2012 focused on consumer-oriented home and community-supported care, but little is known about the impact of these reforms on residential aged care delivery. This study aimed to review research about the quality of residential aged care service delivery during the implementation period of these reforms. The review followed a five-stage scoping review framework and searched five databases for articles published between 2012 and February 2022 (the 10-year implementation period of the reforms). Initial searches identified 495 articles. Articles were imported to Covidence™ for title, abstract and full-text screening. Twenty-two articles were included in the review. Articles were framed using the micro (residents and families)/meso (staff)/macro (governance, government) continuum in the operation of residential aged care facilities. Most articles focused on workforce perspectives. Attention was paid to workforce issues and a limited focus was on consumer experience and expectations. There is a need for an evaluation of the reforms as a vehicle for promoting consumer empowerment. Many contributing factors to quality of care were identified, and there were some quality issues that were contrary to the intended objectives of the reforms. These warrant closer attention.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Clinical guidelines and staff training recommend using de-escalation over restrictive practices, such as restraint and seclusion Evidence suggests that restrictive practices continue to be used frequently despite training This suggests a lack of impact of existing staff de-escalation training. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The features of de-escalation training that are acceptable to staff and perceived to be impactful A co-designed and co-delivered training session on a trauma-informed approach to de-escalation on mental health wards was acceptable and perceived to be impactful Those attending training particularly valued how lived experience was incorporated into the training content and co-delivery The organizational and team context may need more consideration in adapting the training. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: De-escalation training that adopts a trauma-informed approach and considers the context of ward environments is acceptable to staff Co-delivery models of training to tackle restrictive practice can be acceptable and impactful Further research will show how clinically effective this training is in improving outcomes for service users in ward contexts. BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests a discrepancy between recommended and routine practice in de-escalation in mental health settings, suggesting a lack of impact of existing training. To investigate the acceptability and perceived impact of a co-designed/delivered training intervention on a trauma-informed approach to de-escalation on mental health wards. Trainees were invited to complete the Training Acceptability Rating Scale (TARS) post-training. Responses to the quantitative items were summarized using descriptive statistics, and open-text responses were coded using content analysis. Of 214 trainees, 211 completed the TARS. The trainees rated the training favourably (median overall TARS = 55/63), as acceptable (median 33/36) and impactful (median 23/27). There were five qualitative themes: modules of interest; multiple perspectives; modes of delivery; moulding to context; and modifying other elements. The EDITION training was found to be acceptable and impactful, with trainees particularly valuing the co-delivery model. Trainees suggested several ways in which the training could be improved, particularly around the need for further moulding of the intervention to the specific ward contexts/teams. We recommend co-designing and co-delivering staff training to mental health professionals that tackles restrictive practices. This research is relevant to lived experience practitioners who want to be involved in training mental health professionals around restrictive practices, demonstrating the value and importance of their voice. It is relevant to current providers of de-escalation training, and to staff receiving training, outlining a novel, but acceptable and impactful, form of training on a key area of mental health practice. It is relevant to anyone with an interest in reducing restrictive practice via co-delivered training.

Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) are single stranded nucleic acids that target RNA. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved ASOs for several diseases. ASOs utilize three principal modes of action (MOA). The first MOA is initiated by base-pairing between the ASO and its target mRNA, followed by RNase H-dependent mRNA degradation. The second MOA is triggered by ASOs that occlude splice acceptor sites in pre-mRNAs leading to skipping of a mutation-bearing exon. The third MOA involves ASOs that sterically hinder mRNA function, often inhibiting translation. ASOs contain a variety of modifications to the sugar-phosphate backbone and bases that stabilize the ASO or render them resistant to RNase activity. RNase H-dependent ASOs include inotersen and eplontersen (for hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis), fomiversen (for opportunistic cytomegalovirus infection), mipomersen (for familial hypercholesterolemia), and tofersen [for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)]. Splice modulating ASOs include nursinersen (for spinal muscular atrophy) and eteplirsen, golodirsen, viltolarsen, and casimersen (all for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy). In addition, a designer ASO, milasen, was used to treat a single individual afflicted with Batten disease. Since ASO design relies principally upon knowledge of mRNA sequence, the bench to bedside pipeline for ASOs is expedient compared with protein-directed drugs. [Graphical abstract available.].

Depression is a globally prevalent mental condition, particularly among older adults. Previous research has identified that social networks have a buffering effect on depression. Existing systematic reviews have either limited their research to specific geographic areas or provided evidence from over a decade ago. The vast body of recent literature particularly from the last decade emphasizes the need for a comprehensive review. This systematic review aims to analyze the association of structural aspects of social networks and depression in older adults. The electronic databases APA PsycINFO, ProQuest, PSYINDEX, PubMed, Scopus, SocINDEX, and Web of Science were searched from date of data base inception until 11 July 2023. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they reported on community-dwelling older adults (defined as a mean age of at least 60 years old), had an acceptable definition for depression, referred to the term social network in the abstract, and were published in English. Quality was appraised using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale for cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. Outcome data were extracted independently from each study and analyzed by direction of the relationship, social network domain and cross-sectional or longitudinal study design. In total, 127 studies were included. The study categorizes structural network aspects into seven domains and finds that larger and more diverse networks, along with closer social ties, help mitigate depression. The literature on the relationships between depression and network density, homogeneity, and geographical proximity is scarce and inconclusive. DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Despite inconsistent findings, this review highlights the importance of quantifying complex social relations of older adults. Limitations of this review include publication and language bias as well as the exclusion of qualitative research. Further research should use longitudinal approaches to further investigate the reciprocal relationship between social networks and depression. Following this review, interventions should promote the integration of older adults in larger and more diverse social settings. Other: This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) under Grant [454899704]. This systematic review was pre-registered. The review-protocol can be accessed at https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/6QDPK .

Individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges continued to consume mental health services for an average of 13 years as they needed multiple acute psychiatric admissions due to the challenges they experienced in their everyday activities. As caregivers of individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges, they often bear the brunt of caregiving through their assistance with activities of daily living (ADL), providing emotional support and ensuring medication compliance for their loved ones. When caring for their loved ones, caregivers often reported psychological stress, social isolation and emotional exhaustion due to stressors such as uncertainty of the future, the lack of support from professional services and the isolation from their own social network and support mechanism. Insights from this study revealed that caregivers for individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges went through a lonely and exhausting journey fraught with psychological, physical, social and financial challenges, echoing the caregiving needs and the prevalence of the caregiver burden. Insights shared by the caregivers demonstrated the need for a centralised point of contact to navigate Singapore's fragmented mental healthcare sector. Peer-support groups should be further promoted because they offer the benefits of information exchange, mutual support and a sense of empowerment and hopefulness, which may help ease the caregiver burden. Life skills training, such as teaching how to communicate empathetically with family members, resolve conflicts using open communication, maintain a structured daily routine and solve pragmatic problems in daily life, is more critical for individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges. This will help them learn how to manage their well-being, live independently, and stabilise their conditions. Lastly, public awareness campaigns should honour caregivers by highlighting their strength, resilience, and dedication. The state can provide financial assistance in the form of tax relief for their income per annum or caregiver allowance to alleviate the financial stress that caregivers are facing. Introduction The progressive deinstitutionalisation of mental healthcare has increasingly shifted care responsibilities from healthcare professionals to family caregivers for individuals with severe mental illness. Caregivers must balance many obligations, which often compromise their overall health and well-being, while helping their loved ones integrate into the community. Aim To identify and understand caregivers' needs and challenges as they help individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges integrate into the community. Methods This study used a descriptive qualitative approach to explore the experiences and challenges of caregivers for individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges when integrating back into the community. A semi-structured guide was used during the video-conferencing interviews conducted between December 2021 and November 2022. This study was reported according to the 32-item Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research (COREQ) checklist. Findings Fourteen caregivers were individually interviewed by the primary author. Most caregivers were female, with an average of 15 years of experience caring for their loved ones. Using Braun and Clark's six-phase thematic framework, we inductively generate the themes and subthemes from the data. The two themes were (i) challenges (whose subthemes included personal challenges in caregiving, the lack of awareness, and stigma and employment) and (ii) support (whose subthemes included the importance of socialisation for individuals with mental health conditions, existing avenues of support and potential areas for support). Discussion Our findings informed the contemporary needs of caregivers caring for individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges integrating into the community. Like the global challenges for people with mental health issues, psychosocial support and other supplementary support are still common themes in mental health settings. The findings further specifically highlighted the importance of accessible points of contact as resources and employment-enabling and sustaining initiatives to help manage caregivers' emotional and system challenges, which addresses the gaps identified in the findings. Caregivers' peer-support groups, life skills training and public mental health awareness are also necessitated by the caregivers' voices. Implications for Practice Priority areas include having a centralised point of contact within the community for caregivers. Government or not-for-profit organisations can take the lead by initiating employment-enabling initiatives for individuals with severe and enduring mental health challenges and their caregivers.

This study aimed to describe nurses' attitudes and beliefs towards the importance of family in nursing care and explore differences in nurses' attitudes and beliefs towards family-centered care between different healthcare institutions, such as community healthcare centers and hospitals. Family significantly affects the well-being and health of individuals. Therefore, nurses should support family engagement in nursing care. In recent years, family nursing research has emphasized the importance of teaching family nursing skills in continued education in healthcare institutions. Research has indicated that nurses who believe that illness concerns the family as a whole are more likely to involve the family in patient care. A cross-sectional research design was used. Data were collected at one timepoint between March and September 2019 from 425 nurses working at the Primary Health Care Centers of the Capital Area (n=112) and in clinical settings at the University Hospital in Iceland (n=313). The main findings indicated that nurses working in the women-and-child division at the University Hospital reported significantly more positive attitudes towards family evolvement in patient care than nurses working in the intensive care or surgical units. For nurses working at healthcare centers, a significant difference was also found in the nurses' attitudes towards involving families in patient care. The nurses who were working in home care had significantly more positive attitudes when compared to those working in the infant and young children health promotion units. Greater collaboration is required between healthcare providers and families to improve the quality of care and health-related outcomes. Therefore, it is crucial to enhance nurses' knowledge about the importance of families during patient care. This study aimed to describe nurses' attitudes and beliefs towards family care. Differences were found between nurse's attitudes by units but not by institutions.

Male caregivers' participation in eating disorder (ED) treatment for their affected children is less consistent than female caregivers', with unclear effects. To clarify the impact, this scoping review examined literature on male caregiver involvement in ED treatment, focusing on its impact on fathers, treatment processes, and their affected children. A search encompassing English and French peer-reviewed articles from 1990 to 2022 was conducted. Studies distinguishing between mothers and fathers, addressing Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders or International Classification of Diseases ED diagnoses, and involving active interventions were included. From 1651 initially identified articles, 251 were retained after abstract and title review, and 45 met all criteria. Documented outcomes indicated fathers' engagement in ED treatment improved their well-being and family functioning, but these gains were not consistently tied to treatment outcomes. Father attendance, improved caregiving skills, and their expectations of treatment correlated with better outcomes for their affected child. Father involvement in ED treatment remains under-explored. This review emphasises fathers' positive impact while highlighting the need to better understand the link with overall patient outcomes. We call for proactive exploration of how to surmount barriers to fathers' involvement and ensure that paternal contributions are optimised in ED treatment alongside those of female caregivers.

Corruption exists at all levels of our global society and is a potential threat to food security, food safety, equity, and social justice. However, there is a knowledge gap in the role and impact of corruption within the context of the global food system. We aimed to systematically review empirical literature focused on corruption in the global food system to examine how it is characterized, the actors involved, its potential impacts, and the solutions that have been proposed to address corruption in the food system. We used a systematic scoping review methodology. Terms combining corruption and the food system were searched in Scopus, PubMed, Web of Science, PsycInfo and Econlit, in October 2021. Two screeners applied a priori selection criteria to screen the articles at the title and abstract and full-text levels. Data was extracted into a charting form and thematically synthesized to describe the types of corruption in the food system, the actors involved, how corruption impacts the food system, and potential solutions. Sankey diagrams and narrative summaries were developed to summarize the included studies and findings. From the 238 included records, five main types of corruption were identified in the global food system: bureaucratic corruption, fraud, bribery, organized crime, and corporate political activity. These different types of corruption spanned across various food system areas, from policy and governance structures to food environments, and involved a wide range of actors. More powerful actors like those in public and private sectors tended to instigate corruption in the food system, while community members and primary producers tended to be impacted by it. The impacts of corruption were mostly negative and corruption was found to undermine food system governance and regulatory structures; threaten health, safety, and food security; and lead or contribute to environmental degradation, economic loss, erosion of trust, social inequities, and decreased agricultural productivity. While solution-oriented literature was limited, the essential role of strong governance,  use of technology and predictive modelling methods to improve detection of corruption, and organizational approaches to problem solving were identified. Our review findings provide researchers and policymakers with a comprehensive overview of corruption in the global food system, providing insights to inform a more holistic approach to addressing the issue. Addressing corruption in the food system is an essential element of supporting the transition to a more healthy, equitable and sustainable global food system.

Progress on skilled birth attendance (SBA) has been very uneven across low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). There is scant empirical evidence on the role of fundamental development processes in explaining differences in SBA outcomes across world regions over time in these settings. We therefore aimed to estimate how these processes have contributed to observed changes in SBA across Latin America and the Caribbean, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa. We pooled all available Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) rounds that contained detailed birth attendance information. The compiled data covers about 1·1 million births (1·1 million female individuals) from 103 DHS rounds in 37 countries. We estimated the determinants of SBA using multivariable regression techniques and Oaxaca-Blinder decompositions for different world regions and time periods (1990s, 2000s, and 2010s). We show that progress in SBA is associated with improvements in terms of household-level wealth, mothers' education, urbanisation, contraceptive knowledge, and proxies of female empowerment. Furthermore, we show that changes in the underlying relationship between SBA and specific development indicators (wealth, education, and rural residence status) have further contributed to the observed rise in SBA across LMICs. Our findings further suggest that certain determinants of improvements in SBA are region-specific (eg, importance of rural residence status in sub-Saharan Africa), whereas some of the studied processes (eg, poverty, maternal education, and urbanisation) have become less predictive for the uptake of SBA over time. Although substantial progress has been made in increasing SBA rates over the past three decades across LMICs, further efforts for continued progress are still needed to achieve international targets on SBA as part of the Sustainable Development Goals, the Every Newborn Action Plan, and the Ending Preventable Maternal Mortality initiative. According to our findings, these efforts can include general policies (eg, female empowerment) and region-specific policies (eg, poverty reduction programmes in Southeast Asia). Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine. For the French and Indonesian translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Workplace violence is a significant challenge in psychiatric hospital care. Some existing practices of violence risk assessment and management are based on nurses' intuition and clinical experience instead of structured tools. Nurses and nurse managers consider violence risk assessment and management their responsibility. Still, nurses and nurse managers have mixed attitudes towards the use of validated risk assessment tools. The attitudes towards service users' positive risk-taking in nurses and nurse managers vary, with some nurses and nurse managers supporting its importance. Change in nurses' and nurse managers' attitudes towards risk assessment tools is required before their implementation into practice. More profound change in practices towards recovery-oriented care is required also in risk assessment. INTRODUCTION: Workplace violence is a prevalent issue in psychiatric inpatient care. Prevention efforts require the identification of at-risk service users using validated violence risk assessment tools. The shift in violence prevention emphasises preventive measures and collaborative risk assessment together with service users. Nurses have a central role in this process. Therefore, their attitudes are crucial when implementing evidence-based methods. To assess the attitudes of nurses and nurse managers towards violence risk assessment and management. A cross-sectional online survey in Finnish psychiatric inpatient care. Data analysis was conducted with statistical methods. The STROBE guideline was used in reporting. Nurses (n = 142) valued risk assessment and felt that it was their responsibility. Attitudes towards service users' risk-taking as part of their recovery varied. Nurses had mixed attitudes regarding the effectiveness of risk assessment tools. Older participants and nurse managers had more positive attitudes towards risk assessment tools. The study findings highlight a feeling of responsibility of nurses towards violence risk assessment and at the same time their preference towards their own clinical judgement. Understanding nurses' attitudes is crucial in training and implementation processes to address concerns, provide support and enhance positive attitudes.

The effects of antipsychotics on negative symptoms are limited. The most appropriate approach in the treatment of schizophrenia is the integration of drug therapy with psychological and social interventions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of art therapy and psychosocial skills training (PSST) in the treatment of schizophrenia. A total of 15 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia according to the criteria in DSM-5 and 12 patient relatives were included in the study. The patients were randomly divided into 2 groups, 7 were included in the art therapy program and 8 were included in the PSST program for schizophrenia. 90-minute sessions of art therapy and PSST were carried out once a week for 17 weeks. Participants with schizophrenia were evaluated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Social Functioning Scale (SFS) and the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia and the relatives were given Beck Depression Inventory, Beck Anxiety Inventory and Zarit Burden Interview. There was a significant decrease in the PANSS negative symptoms, PANSS general psychopathology, SFS pro-social activities and SFS recreation scores in both groups, while the SFS social withdrawal scores decreased significantly only in the art therapy group. In the PANSS negative symptoms subscale, passive social withdrawal, difficulty in abstract thinking, lack of spontaneity and flow of conversation and stereotyped thinking scores were significantly lower in the art therapy group. In the PSST group only the score for difficulty in abstract thinking declined significantly. The findings of the present study suggest that art therapy and PSST have positive effects on the improvement of negative symptoms as well as improvements in social and cognitive functionality in schizophrenia.

Perinatal loss is a traumatic event associated with a high risk of parents experiencing negative psychological outcomes. Despite most parents being in regular contact with midwives and nurses during the perinatal period, there is a lack of evidence which hampers these professionals from using effective psychosocial interventions with parents. This study aims to synthesise the existing evidence on the types of psychosocial interventions delivered by midwives/nurses for parents with perinatal bereavement, their impacts on bereaved parents' mental health and the experiences of midwives and nurses in delivering psychosocial interventions for parents experiencing perinatal loss. An integrative review of the literature. Whittemore and Knafl's five-stage integrative review framework guided this review. A systematic literature search of the Medline, PsycINFO, Embase, CINAHL and ASSIA, Cochrane Library and ProQuest databases was conducted from inception to January 2023, with no language or geographical limiters set due to the paucity of research published in this subject area. Two researchers independently screened and reviewed each study's data extraction and methodological quality using the Joanna Briggs Institute and Mixed Method Appraisal Tool. Results were analysed and synthesised using narrative synthesis. A total of 21 studies met the inclusion criteria. From these, we identified nine types of psychosocial interventions for perinatal bereavement that can be delivered by midwives and nurses. The positive impacts of midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions on grief, anxiety, depression posttraumatic stress disorder and other psychosocial outcomes amongst parents experiencing perinatal loss have been demonstrated. In addition, we identified the useful components of these interventions and the experiences of midwives and nurses in delivering psychosocial interventions, thereby highlighting barriers such as lack of knowledge and skills, stressful working environments and inadequate emotional support. Our findings demonstrate that midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions have the potential to improve grief, anxiety, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms and other psychosocial outcomes for parents experiencing perinatal loss. Thus, future research should consider training, workload, time cost and emotional support for midwives/nurses when developing midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions for parents with perinatal loss. CRD42022369032. Midwife/nurse-led psychosocial interventions have the potential to improve mental health amongst parents experiencing perinatal loss.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

Actinomycetes are present in various terrestrial and aquatic habitats, predominantly in the soil rhizosphere, encompassing marine and freshwater ecosystems. These microorganisms exhibit characteristics that resemble both bacteria and fungi. Numerous actinomycetes exhibit a mycelial existence and undergo significant morphological transformations. These bacteria are widely recognized as biotechnologically significant microorganisms utilized for the production of secondary metabolites. In all, over 45% of all bioactive microbial metabolites are produced by actinomycetes, which are responsible for producing around 10,000 of them. The majority of actinomycetes exhibit substantial saprophytic characteristics in their natural environment, enabling them to effectively decompose a diverse range of plant and animal waste materials during the process of decomposition. Additionally, these organisms possess a sophisticated secondary metabolic system, which enables them to synthesize almost two-thirds of all naturally occurring antibiotics. Moreover, they can create a diverse array of chemical compounds with medical or agricultural applications, including anticancer, antiparasitic, and antibacterial agents. This review aims to provide an overview of the prominent biotechnological domains in which actinobacteria and their metabolites demonstrate noteworthy applicability. The graphical abstract provides a preview of the primary sections covered in this review. This paper presents a comprehensive examination of the biotechnological applications and metabolites of actinobacteria, highlighting their potential for patent innovations.

Major depressive disorder is considered one of the most common and prevalent diseases worldwide, affecting children, adults, and the elderly. Currently, several antidepressant drugs are available on the market, but the low adherence of patients due to the slow therapeutic response is a problem to be solved. In this way, cyclodextrins become an alternative to circumvent the limitations and improve the physicochemical and pharmacological properties of this class of drugs. Thus, the objective of this work is to carry out a current review of patents associating antidepressant drugs and cyclodextrins. The patent search was performed in two patent databases, the World Intellectual Property Organization and the European Patent Office using terms in the title and abstract fields and the international patent classification code for antidepressant drugs. In the end, 27 patent documents were selected and divided into three classifications, physical-chemical characterization study, pre-clinical in vivo trials, and clinical trials. The scientific evidence found in the patents considers the use of cyclodextrins as an important alternative to improve the therapeutic and physicochemical properties of antidepressant drugs, among the main improved properties are, solubility, stability, masking taste and odor, bioavailability.

Individuals with disabilities are more vulnerable to depression development than the general population. This study sought to map the evidence on current knowledge of depression, intervention strategies, and assessment tools among people with disabilities. This review was conducted following Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review methodology framework. An electronic search was performed on four English databases: PubMed, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, and Web of Science. The original search returned 1802 results, with 1,116 from Web of Science, 626 from PubMed, 25 from Cochrane, and 35 from PsycINFO. After removing duplicates, 786 articles were chosen for the title and abstract screening processes. Finally, 112 full-text publications were deemed eligible, with 41 papers being included in this scoping review for analysis. A large proportion (32; 78.04%) of the studies chosen were cross-sectional, 14 (34.14%) of them reported general disability, 12 (29.26%) used a patient health questionnaire (PHQ-9) to measure depression, and 14 (34.14%) had interventions, including cognitive behavioral therapy, psychological counseling, social support, and physical activity. All interventions successfully reduced the severity of the depression. Cognitive behavioral therapies and psychological counseling were widely used interventions that had a significant impact on reducing depression. More randomized controlled trials are required, and they should focus on individuals with specific disabilities to provide disability-specific care that can improve the quality of life for disabled individuals.

High levels of mental health problems among young people were reported during the COVID-19 pandemic, but studies of the post-pandemic period are scarce. We assessed mental health problems among Finnish youth before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic using nationwide population-based samples. Our aim was to examine in which direction the heightened levels of adolescent mental health problems have developed after the pandemic. In this national, repeated cross-sectional, population-based study in Finland, we recruited students at lower and upper secondary level (aged 13-20 years) who were taking part in the Finnish School Health Promotion (SHP) survey in 2015-23 (119 681-158 897 participants per round). The SHP is based on total sampling and conducted biennially between March and May. Self-reports covered the seven-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale; the two-item Patient Health Questionnaire for depression; the Mini Social Phobia Inventory for social anxiety; the Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale for mental wellbeing; loneliness; the Sick, Control, One Stone, Fat, Food measure for disordered eating; and suicidality (suicidal ideation, deliberate self-harm, and suicide attempts). Scales were dichotomised using validated cutoffs. Presence of any and comorbid mental health problems was assessed. Logistic (for dichotomised outcomes) and linear (for Short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale) mixed effects models were used to analyse the effect of survey year on mental health, controlling for sociodemographic background factors and stratified by gender and school level. Cisgender and transgender youth were compared. Between 2015 and 2023, the SHP study recruited 722 488 students (371 634 [51·6%] girls and 348 857 [48·4%] boys) with a mean age of 15·8 years (SD 1·3) who were either in the eighth and ninth grades of comprehensive school or the first and second years of general and vocational upper secondary schools in Finland. The proportion of participants with generalised anxiety, depression, and social anxiety symptoms above the cutoff increased from pre-COVID-19 levels to 2021 and remained at these higher levels in 2023 among all study groups. Among girls in lower secondary education, prevalence of generalised anxiety, depression, and social anxiety symptoms increased from 2021 to 2023, as did social anxiety among girls in upper secondary education. Among boys, the proportion with social anxiety symptoms decreased between 2021 and 2023. Mental wellbeing scores decreased in all groups between 2021 and 2023, and disordered eating increased in girls, and in boys in lower secondary education. Suicidality increased in girls but not in boys. Loneliness was the only measure to show improvement in all groups from 2021 to 2023. In 2023, 55 895 (72·6%) of 76 994 girls and 22 718 (32·8%) of 69 205 boys reported at least one mental health problem, and 37 250 (48·4%) girls and 9442 (13·6%) boys reported comorbid mental health problems. Among both transfeminine and transmasculine youth, the prevalence of generalised anxiety and depression symptoms decreased from 2021 to 2023, but compared with cisgender youth, the proportions were significantly higher throughout. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on youth mental health could be long lasting. In this study, the substantial change for the better among transgender youth was a positive exception. Providing adequate support and treatment for young people with poor mental health is essential, but solutions to the mental health crisis need to address a wider societal perspective and should be developed in partnership with young people. NordForsk, Research Council of Finland. For the Finnish and Swedish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

In the United States there are roughly three million births a year, ranging from cesarean to natural births. A major aspect of the birthing process is related to the healing environment, and how that helps or harms healing for the mother and child. Using the theoretical framework, Theory of Supportive Care Settings (TSCS), this study aimed to explore what is necessary to have a safe and sacred healing environment for mothers. This study utilized an updated Qualitative Interpretive Meta-synthesis (QIMS) design called QIMS-DTT [deductive theory testing] to answer the research question, What are mother's experiences of environmental factors contributing to a supportive birthing environment within healthcare settings? Key terms were run through multiple databases, which resulted in 5,688 articles. After title and abstract screening, 43 were left for full-text, 12 were excluded, leaving 31 to be included in the final QIMS. Five main themes emerged from analysis: 1) Service in the environment, 2) Recognizing oneself within the birthing space, 3) Creating connections with support systems, 4) Being welcomed into the birthing space, and 5) Feeling safe within the birthing environment. Providing a warm and welcoming birth space is crucial for people who give birth to have positive experiences. Providing spaces where the person can feel safe and supported allows them to find empowerment in the situation where they have limited control.

Breast cancer is currently the most commonly diagnosed cancer in Ghana and the leading cause of cancer mortality among women. Few published empirical evidence exist on cultural beliefs and perceptions about breast cancer diagnosis and treatment in Ghana. This systematic review sought to map evidence on the socio-cultural beliefs and perceptions influencing the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer among Ghanaian women. This review was conducted following the methodological guideline of Joanna Briggs Institute and reported in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses. The literature search was conducted in PubMed, CINAHL via EBSCOhost, PsycINFO, Web of Science, and Embase. Studies that were conducted on cultural, religious, and spiritual beliefs were included. The included studies were screened by title, abstract, and full text by three reviewers. Data were charted and results were presented in a narrative synthesis form. After the title, abstract, and full-text screening, 15 studies were included. Three categories were identified after the synthesis of the charted data. The categories included: cultural, religious and spiritual beliefs and misconceptions about breast cancer. The cultural beliefs included ancestral punishment and curses from the gods for wrongdoing leading to breast cancer. Spiritual beliefs about breast cancer were attributed to spiritual or supernatural forces. People had the religious belief that breast cancer is a test from God and they resorted to prayers for healing. Some women perceived that breast cancer is caused by spider bites, heredity, extreme stress, trauma, infections, diet, or lifestyle. This study adduces evidence of the socio-cultural beliefs that impact on the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer among women in Ghana. Taking into consideration the diverse cultural and traditional beliefs about breast cancer diagnosis and treatment, there is a compelling need to intensify nationwide public education on breast cancer to clarify the myths and misconceptions about the disease. We recommend the need to incorporate socio-cultural factors influencing breast cancer diagnosis and treatment into breast cancer awareness programs, education, and interventions in Ghana.

No abstract available.

Social health markers, including marital status, contact frequency, network size, and social support, have been shown to be associated with cognition. However, the mechanisms underlying these associations remain poorly understood. We investigated whether depressive symptoms and inflammation mediated associations between social health and subsequent cognition. In the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA), a nationally representative longitudinal study in England, UK, we sampled 7136 individuals aged 50 years or older living in private households without dementia at baseline or at the intermediate mediator assessment timepoint, who had recorded information on at least one social health marker and potential mediator. We used four-way decomposition to examine to what extent depressive symptoms, C-reactive protein, and fibrinogen mediated associations between social health and subsequent standardised cognition (verbal fluency and delayed and immediate recall), including cognitive change, with slopes derived from multilevel models (12-year slope). We examined whether findings were replicated in the Swedish National Study on Aging and Care in Kungsholmen (SNAC-K), a population-based longitudinal study in Sweden, in a sample of 2604 individuals aged 60 years or older living at home or in institutions in Kungsholmen (central Stockholm) without dementia at baseline or at the intermediate mediator assessment timepoint (6-year slope). Social health exposures were assessed at baseline, potential mediators were assessed at an intermediate timepoint (wave 2 in ELSA and 6-year follow-up in SNAC-K); cognitive outcomes were assessed at a single timepoint (wave 3 in ELSA and 12-year follow-up in SNAC-K), and cognitive change (between waves 3 and 9 in ELSA and between 6-year and 12-year follow-ups in SNAC-K). The study sample included 7136 participants from ELSA, of whom 3962 (55·5%) were women and 6934 (97·2%) were White; the mean baseline age was 63·8 years (SD 9·4). Replication analyses included 2604 participants from SNAC-K, of whom 1604 (61·6%) were women (SNAC-K did not collect ethnicity data); the mean baseline age was 72·3 years (SD 10·1). In ELSA, we found indirect effects via depressive symptoms of network size, positive support, and less negative support on subsequent verbal fluency, and of positive support on subsequent immediate recall (pure indirect effect [PIE] 0·002 [95% CI 0·001-0·003]). Depressive symptoms also partially mediated associations between less negative support and slower decline in immediate recall (PIE 0·001 [0·000-0·002]) and in delayed recall (PIE 0·001 [0·000-0·002]), and between positive support and slower decline in immediate recall (PIE 0·001 [0·000-0·001]). We did not observe mediation by inflammatory biomarkers. Findings of mediation by depressive symptoms in the association between positive support and verbal fluency and between positive support and change in immediate recall were replicated in SNAC-K. The findings of this study provide new insights into mechanisms linking social health with cognition, suggesting that associations between interactional aspects of social health, especially social support, and cognition are partly underpinned by depressive symptoms. EU Joint Programme-Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND) and Alzheimer's Society. For the Swedish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To assess reporting practices of sociodemographic data in Upper Aerodigestive Tract (UAT) videomics research in Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery (OHNS). Narrative review. Four online research databases were searched for peer-reviewed articles on videomics and UAT endoscopy in OHNS, published since January 1, 2017. Title and abstract search, followed by a full-text screening was performed. Dataset audit criteria were determined by the MINIMAR reporting standards for patient demographic characteristics, in addition to gender and author affiliations. Of the 57 studies that were included, 37% reported any sociodemographic information on their dataset. Among these studies, all reported age, most reported sex (86%), two (10%) reported race, and one (5%) reported ethnicity and socioeconomic status. No studies reported gender. Most studies (84%) included at least one female author, and more than half of the studies (53%) had female first/senior authors, with no significant differences in the rate of sociodemographic reporting in studies with and without female authors (any female author: p = 0.2664; first/senior female author: p > 0.9999). Most studies based in the US reported at least one sociodemographic variable (79%), compared to those in Europe (24%) and in Asia (20%) (p = 0.0012). The rates of sociodemographic reporting in journals of different categories were as follows: clinical OHNS: 44%, clinical non-OHNS: 40%, technical: 42%, interdisciplinary: 10%. There is prevalent underreporting of sociodemographic information in OHNS videomics research utilizing UAT endoscopy. Routine reporting of sociodemographic information should be implemented for AI-based research to help minimize algorithmic biases that have been previously demonstrated.

This exploratory literature review seeks to examine the literature around commissioning processes in the co-production of health and care services, focusing on two questions: How do health and care commissioning processes facilitate and/or pose barriers to co-production in service design and delivery? What are the contextual factors that influence these processes? A systematic search of three databases (Medline, Public Health and Social Policy and Practice) and a search platform (Web of Science) was conducted for the period 2008-2023. A total of 2675 records were retrieved. After deduplication, 1925 were screened at title and abstract level. Forty-seven reports from 42 United Kingdom and Ireland studies were included in the review. A thematic synthesis of included studies was conducted in relation to the research questions. The review identified one overarching theme across the synthesised literature: the complexity of the commissioning landscape. Three interconnected subthemes illuminate the contextual factors that influence this landscape: commissioners as leaders of co-production; navigating relationships and the collective voice. Commissioning processes were commonly a barrier to the co-production of health and care services. Though co-production was an aspiration for many commissioners, the political and economic environment and service pressures meant that it was often not fully realised. More flexible funding models, longer-term pilot projects, an increased emphasis in social value across the health and care system and building capacity for strong leadership in commissioning is needed. Patients and the public did not contribute to this review as it was a small piece of work following on from a completed project, with no budget for public involvement.

A growing body of research is addressing the process and science of engaging people with lived experience (PWLE) of mental health challenges and other psychiatric conditions, and family members, in research activities. This scoping review of reviews synthesizes literature reviews on the engagement of PWLE and family members in research across the field of psychiatry. Systematic searches were conducted in seven bibliographic databases. Records were independently screened first at the title and abstract level, then at the full-text level. Included were any literature synthesis studies published in English, French, or Spanish in any given year, focusing on the engagement of PWLE and/or family members in research within psychiatry. Twenty records were included. Data were extracted in a spreadsheet and codebook thematic analysis was used across the body of articles to synthesize the findings. Aspects of PWLE engagement have been synthesized in 20 review articles reviewing 376 articles across psychiatry as a whole and several subpopulations, including youth mental health, dementia, neurodevelopmental disorders, people who use drugs, and forensic mental health. Information specific to family engagement is lacking. Barriers, facilitators, and positive impacts of PWLE engagement have been widely reported across domains of research, with a considerable degree of consensus across subpopulations. Some negative impacts and reporting challenges have also been identified. This scoping review of reviews provides an overarching understanding of the current state of the science of PWLE and family engagement across psychiatry research. The findings can inform future research practices enriched with a genuine and effective engagement with PWLE and families. The authorship team includes members with intersecting lived experience and academic identities. Additional lived experience engagement was not conducted as part of this review.

Adolescent dating violence (DV) is not only a social but also a public health problem, necessitating the development and scale-up of prevention strategies. We conducted a review of the literature to identify adolescent and young adult DV prevention programs that have shown promising behavioral outcomes. The literature search covered articles published from 1996 to 2022 and indexed in Medline, Cochrane, Scopus, PsycINFO, and Embase. The review focused on programs implemented and evaluated in the United States or Canada that included intervention and comparison groups, a baseline assessment, and at least one post-assessment conducted after the intervention exposure. Promising behavioral outcomes were defined as positive, statistically significant differences between intervention and comparison groups with respect to DV perpetration or victimization or bystander behavior in relation to DV. A total of 118 articles were screened by abstract and read in-depth. Eighteen programs that met the inclusion criteria were identified. Of these programs, one showed reductions in DV victimization, six showed reductions in DV perpetration, and nine showed behavioral reductions in both violence perpetration and victimization. The review highlighted that while multiple programs have demonstrated efficacy in preventing or reducing intimate partner violence in North American youth populations, more robust research on the replication of these programs outside researcher-controlled environments is needed. Furthermore, issues with program inclusivity, such as with sex and gender-minority individuals, should be considered in future intervention development and replication research.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: According to recent estimates, 10.4% of adults are patients with substance abuse, which is almost double the global rate. Rural areas are typically marginalized, compounded by a lack of access to mental health care, creating a startling disparity in suffering from drug use issues among rural cohorts. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Drawing on data from a descriptive comparative design would provide a distinctive picture related to the similarities and/or differences in relation to craving and how it affects perceived stigma and suicidal risk among patients using old versus novel psychoactive substances. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Substance abuse is a leading public health concern that forces nurses to encompass it into their agendas to tackle this looming problem. Addiction rehabilitation services are frequently run by nurses. They are well-versed in supporting patients during their journey to recovery and enabling them to adjust to a new lifestyle. INTRODUCTION: Substance use disorder is a leading public health concern that currently, nations regulatory agencies are grappled with. The noticeable difference in the chemical structures between old and novel psychoactive substances can result in significant clinical complications among patients with substance abuse. The study aims to compare substance craving, perceived stigma and suicidal risk among patients addicted to old and novel psychoactive substances (NPS). A descriptive comparative design was adopted on a sample of 105 patients with substance use who completed The Penn Alcohol Craving Scale (PACS), The Perceived Stigma of Addiction Scale (PSAS) and Suicide Probability Scale (SPS). Most participants were male, with 89.5% in the old addictive substance group and 93.8% in the new addictive substance group. A statistically significant difference in the NPS groups' perceptions of stigma (23.4 ± 5.3) compared to the old addictive substance group (20.6 ± 4.2), (t = 3.037, p = .003). Participants in the new substance group report more suicidal ideation, negative self-evaluation and hostility than those in the old substance group. Policies and practices should be tailored to the type of drug used and potential risk factors to avoid suicide among patients with substance abuse.

A strong relation between adverse childhood experiences (ACE) and aggression has been established in adult populations, with less research examining this relation earlier in development. The purpose of this study was to complete a scoping review of the current evidence available on the relation between ACE and aggression and subtypes of aggression within a child and adolescent population. Inclusion criteria for the review included publications in English between 1998 and 2023, use of a child/adolescent population, and peer-review and quantitative publications. Databases searched included PubMed, APA PsycINFO, Scopus, and EBSCO, and search terms included words related to ACE and aggression. Initial selection was based on title and abstract, with 32 papers meeting eligibility criteria for inclusion. Two authors extracted the relevant characteristics of the studies independently and conferred on any disagreements. The overall findings from the scoping review suggest that there is a strong link between aggression and ACE; however, this link may not be as strong for specific subtypes of aggression. Additionally, characteristics of ACE may play role in understanding this relation, but little research is available within a child and adolescent population. A few studies have attempted to examine potential mediators and moderators of this relation; however, none have been replicated within a child and adolescent population. The findings from this review support the need for additional research in this area and identify significant gaps in the literature that need to be addressed within a child and adolescent population.

China is home to the second largest population of children and adolescents in the world. Yet demographic shifts mean that the government must manage the challenge of fewer children with the needs of an ageing population, while considering the delicate tension between economic growth and environmental sustainability. We mapped the health problems and risks of contemporary school-aged children and adolescents in China against current national health policies. We involved multidisciplinary experts, including young people, with the aim of identifying actionable strategies and specific recommendations to promote child and adolescent health and wellbeing. Notwithstanding major improvements in their health over the past few decades, contemporary Chinese children and adolescents face distinct social challenges, including high academic pressures and youth unemployment, and new health concerns including obesity, mental health issues, and sexually transmitted infections. Inequality by gender, geography, and ethnicity remains a feature of health risks and outcomes. We identified a mismatch between current health determinants, risks and outcomes, and government policies. To promote the health of children and adolescents in China, we recommend a set of strategies that target government-led initiatives across the health, education, and community sectors, which aim to build supportive and responsive families, safe communities, and engaging and respectful learning environments. TRANSLATION: For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Preschool-age children use mental state verbs (MSVs; e.g., think, know) to reference thoughts and other cognitive states. In play-based language, MSV use requires conversational flexibility, as speakers shift from discussion of actions happening in the here-and-now to more abstract discussion of mental states. Some evidence suggests that children who stutter (CWS) demonstrate subtle differences in shifting on experimental tasks of cognitive flexibility, differences which may extend to conversational flexibility. This study explored MSV use in conversational language between CWS and their mothers. Thirty-five preschool-age CWS and 35 age- and gender-matched children who do not stutter (CWNS), all performing within the typical range on standardized language testing, conversed with their mothers during play. Samples were transcribed and coded for MSV use. No between-group differences were observed in MSV use, either between the CWS and CWNS or between the groups of mothers. Age and language skills were positively associated with MSV use in the CWNS group only. For both groups of dyads, mothers' MSV use corresponded at least to some extent to their children's language skills. Finally, correspondence between CWNS and their mothers was observed for two conversational language measures, representing lexical diversity and morphosyntax; this overall pattern was not observed in the CWS dyad group. Although these findings point to similar use of MSVs among the groups of children and their mothers, for the CWS group, the patterns of use in relation to age and language skills are somewhat different from developmental expectations.

Pain affects all children, and in hospitals across North America, this pain is often undertreated. Children who visit the emergency department (ED) experience similar undertreatment, and they will often experience a painful procedure as part of their diagnostic journey. Further, children and their caregivers who experience social injustices through marginalization are more likely to experience healthcare disparities in their pain management. Still, most of our knowledge about children's pain management comes from research focused on well-educated, white children and caregivers from a middle- or upper-class background. The aim of this scoping review is to identify, map, and describe existing research on (a) how aspects of marginalization are documented in randomized controlled trials related to children's pain and (b) to understand the pain treatment and experiences of marginalized children and their caregivers in the ED setting. The review will follow Joanna Briggs Institute methodology for scoping reviews using the Participant, Concept, Context (PCC) framework and key terms related to children, youth, pain, ED, and aspects of marginalization. We will search Medline, Embase, PsychInfo, CINAHL, Web of Science, Cochrane Library Trials, iPortal, and Native Health Database for articles published in the last 10 years to identify records that meet our inclusion criteria. We will screen articles in a two-step process using two reviewers during the abstract and full-text screening stages. Data will be extracted using Covidence for data management and we will use a narrative approach to synthesize the data. Ethical approval is not required for this review. Findings will be disseminated in academic manuscripts, at academic conferences, and with partners and knowledge users including funders of pain research and healthcare professionals. Results of this scoping review will inform subsequent quantitative and qualitative studies regarding pain experiences and treatment of marginalized children in the ED.

The COVID-19 pandemic has been extensively discussed in the context of its effect on mental health. Although global suicide rates have remained stable during the pandemic, the specific effect on non-fatal suicide behaviours during and after the pandemic remains underexplored. This study aims to investigate patterns of non-fatal suicide behaviours before, during, and after the pandemic. In this cohort study, we used data from all hospitals in Catalonia, Spain, collected through the Catalan Suicide Risk Code, which is a specifically designed suicide attempt surveillance protocol, involving a face-to-face, in-depth psychiatric evaluation, after a Catalan resident presents any suicide risk behaviour in any public health-care setting. This evaluation centralises data from suicide registries across the territory. We included non-fatal suicide behaviours, meaning suicidal ideation or attempts that did not result in death, and excluded self-harm behaviours not judged to be linked with suicidal ideation. We considered three periods: the pre-confinement period (Jan 1, 2018, to the enforcement of the lockdown in Spain on March 14, 2020); the confinement period (March 14, 2020, to the end of lockdown on June 21, 2020); and the post-confinement period (June 21, 2020, to Dec 31, 2022). We used Bayesian structural time series models to assess the effect of pandemic phases on non-fatal suicide behaviours, and we ran stratified analyses by sex and age to identify distinct patterns among demographic cohorts. We obtained 26 482 records from Jan 1, 2018, to Dec 31, 2022. The mean age was 37·94 years (SD 18·07), and the sample included 17 584 (66·4%) women and 8898 (33·6%) men. Data on ethnicity were not collected. Temporal trends showed a mild increase in non-fatal suicide behaviours from Jan 1, 2018, to March 13, 2020; a reduction during the confinement period; and a subsequent rise after confinement. Bayesian models suggested a significant causal effect of lockdown easing, resulting in a 50·77% increase in non-fatal suicide behaviours (95% credible interval [CrI] 26·62-76·58; p<0·0001). Stratified analyses indicated that the easing of lockdown resulted in a significant increase in non-fatal suicide behaviours among women (25·92%; 6·71-44·72; p=0·011) and among individuals aged 18 years and younger (72·75%; 38·81-108·11; p<0·0001). This study provides a comprehensive examination of non-fatal suicide behaviours in Catalonia, Spain, emphasising the dynamics of different COVID-19 pandemic phases. The initial reduction during strict lockdown aligns with Joiner's Interpersonal Theory of Suicide, whereas the post-confinement rise reflects complex factors, including social isolation and economic challenges. Sex-specific and age-specific analyses underscore distinct vulnerabilities, emphasising the need for targeted preventive strategies. Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental annual budget of G21, Agència de Gestió d'Ajuts Universitaris i de Recerca of the Generalitat de Catalunya. For the Catalan and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To determine if reviewer experience impacts the ability to discriminate between human-written and ChatGPT-written abstracts. Thirty reviewers (10 seniors, 10 juniors, and 10 residents) were asked to differentiate between 10 ChatGPT-written and 10 human-written (fabricated) abstracts. For the study, 10 gynecologic oncology abstracts were fabricated by the authors. For each human-written abstract we generated a ChatGPT matching abstract by using the same title and the fabricated results of each of the human generated abstracts. A web-based questionnaire was used to gather demographic data and to record the reviewers' evaluation of the 20 abstracts. Comparative statistics and multivariable regression were used to identify factors associated with a higher correct identification rate. The 30 reviewers discriminated 20 abstracts, giving a total of 600 abstract evaluations. The reviewers were able to correctly identify 300/600 (50%) of the abstracts: 139/300 (46.3%) of the ChatGPT-generated abstracts and 161/300 (53.7%) of the human-written abstracts (p=0.07). Human-written abstracts had a higher rate of correct identification (median (IQR) 56.7% (49.2-64.1%) vs 45.0% (43.2-48.3%), p=0.023). Senior reviewers had a higher correct identification rate (60%) than junior reviewers and residents (45% each; p=0.043 and p=0.002, respectively). In a linear regression model including the experience level of the reviewers, familiarity with artificial intelligence (AI) and the country in which the majority of medical training was achieved (English speaking vs non-English speaking), the experience of the reviewer (β=10.2 (95% CI 1.8 to 18.7)) and familiarity with AI (β=7.78 (95% CI 0.6 to 15.0)) were independently associated with the correct identification rate (p=0.019 and p=0.035, respectively). In a correlation analysis the number of publications by the reviewer was positively correlated with the correct identification rate (r28)=0.61, p<0.001. A total of 46.3% of abstracts written by ChatGPT were detected by reviewers. The correct identification rate increased with reviewer and publication experience.

Local governments are the closest level of government to the communities they serve. Traditionally providing roads, rates and garbage services, they are also responsible for policy and regulation, particularly land use planning and community facilities and services that have direct and indirect impacts on (equitable) health and well-being. Partnerships between health agencies and local government are therefore an attractive proposition to progress actions that positively impact community health and well-being. Yet, the factors underpinning these partnerships across different contexts are underdeveloped, as mechanisms to improve population health and well-being. A scoping review was conducted to gain insight into the concepts, theories, sources, and knowledge gaps that shape partnerships between health and local governments. The search strategy followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guidelines and was informed by a critical realist approach that identifies necessary, contingent and contextual factors in the literature. MEDLINE, Scopus, Web of Science, and ProQuest Central databases were searched for studies published between January 2005 and July 2021. The search yielded 3472 studies, after deleting duplicates and initial title and abstract screening, 188 papers underwent full text review. Twenty-nine papers were included in the review. Key themes shaping partnerships included funding and resources; partnership qualities; governance and policy; and evaluation and measures of success. The functional, organisational and individual aspects of these themes are explored and presented in a framework. Given that local government are the closest level of government to community, this paper provides a sophisticated roadmap that can underpin partnerships between local government and health agencies aiming to influence population health outcomes. By identifying key themes across contexts, we provide a framework that may assist in designing and evaluating evidence-informed health and local government partnerships.

Forests boast essential resources and potential to mitigate climate change, meriting the development of conservation policies on all governmental scales. Ecosystem services provided by forests, including biodiversity, air quality, and food and fuel production, make forests valuable assets for climate-vulnerable communities that often lack the means to cope with ecosystem service degradation resulting from climate change. Historically, these vulnerable communities are previously marginalized and socio-economically limited, and climate change augments already-existing injustices. Policy discussions around managing forests and carbon, therefore, must consider environmental justice as well as diversity, equity, and inclusion to better meet the needs of all constituents. Using R, we perform a review of forest, climate, and policy peer-reviewed literature published between 2018 and 2021 for prevalence of topics related to diversity, equity, inclusion, and justice (DEIJ). We select DEIJ terms a priori and a posteriori based on our understanding of DEIJ and common considerations of the literature. Out of 2891 unique articles, 15.7% of literature mentioned at least one DEIJ term in the title, keyword list, or abstract. We identify which journals have published DEIJ literature more often in the context of forest, climate, and policy, and we perform a co-occurrence analysis of additional common themes. Concepts such as ecosystem services and economics appeared often in the literature, as well as REDD+ as a specifically mentioned policy. We call for increased consideration of DEIJ in forest, climate, and policy discussions and literature, as vulnerable communities historically have been excluded from and victimized by the conversations held among large, economically motivated entities.

Over 45,000 gun deaths occur annually in the United States, a country with more than 100 million gun owners and more than 350 million guns. Nevertheless, passing legislation to reduce gun violence is difficult because the issue is intensely polarized. Polls asking about general gun policies (e.g., AR-15 restrictions) demonstrate that, at least in the abstract, Americans disagree vehemently about whether civilians should be able to keep and bear arms. It is possible, however, that a hidden consensus exists in America, which has thus far escaped attention-specifically, that when the focus is on their immediate environments and daily lives, even traditionally pro-gun groups may exhibit aversion to certain types of gun ownership and storage practices. To test this, we conducted two preregistered survey experiments with a large national sample. The first was a conjoint analysis where respondents chose between neighbors (n = 33,596 choices) who randomly varied on seven attributes, including gun ownership (none, pistol, AR-15). No group of respondents, not even traditionally pro-gun groups (e.g., Republicans), exhibited a significant preference for living near gun owners, and every group was averse to AR-15-owning neighbors. The second experiment, per debates about safe-storage laws, was a picture-based factorial vignette that randomized a neighbor's gun storage practices (n = 2,098). Every group of respondents was averse to interacting with a neighbor who stored guns outside of a locked safe. Our findings demonstrate that there is widespread agreement that certain types of gun ownership and storage practices are undesirable for communities.

Over the past half century, the world has witnessed an unprecedented decline in human fertility rates. This analysis reviews the various socioeconomic, cultural, and biological factors involved in driving this change and considers whether low fertility rates are a temporary or permanent feature of our future demographic profile. Since the early 1960s, the world has witnessed the spectacular collapse of human fertility. As a result of this phenomenon, several countries are already seeing their population numbers fall and more will follow in the coming decades. The causes of this fertility decline involve a complex interplay of socio-economic, environmental, and biological factors that have converged to constrain fertility in posterity's wake. Since large numbers of offspring are no longer needed to compensate for high infant mortality in contemporary society, couples have opted to have small families in a quality-over-quantity investment in their progeny's future. Simultaneously, increases in female education, the enhanced participation of women in the paid workforce, and a resultant delay in childbearing has placed limits on achievable family size. Progressive urbanization, the improved availability of contraceptives, and the socio-economic pressures experienced by young adults in ageing societies are also contributing to fertility's demise. These factors, together with the individualism that pervades modern society and the increasing social acceptability of voluntary childlessness, have firmly established a low fertility ethos in most post-transition countries. Since none of these forces are about to relent, it looks as if extremely low fertility might be with us for some time to come. This may have long-term consequences. The lack of selection pressure on high fertility genotypes, the ability of ART to retain poor fertility genotypes within the population, and sustained exposure to reproductive toxicants in modern industrialized environments may all contrive to leave a permanent mark on the fecundity of our species.

This study investigated the feasibility and effectiveness of a novel, evidence-based developmental care pathway to be used by health care providers and parents in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) setting. The i-Rainbow is based on current evidence and responds to individual infant health status. It is not based on infant age. After development and implementation of the i-Rainbow, pre- and postimplementation nurse and parent survey data were collected and pre- and post-developmental care rates were compared. After i-Rainbow implementation, disagreement among providers on appropriate developmental care interventions significantly decreased, total minutes of daily developmental care and swaddled holding increased significantly, and parents reported that they would recommend the tool. The i-Rainbow is a unique, parent-friendly, infant-based tool that guides sensory interventions in the NICU by staging infants based on cardiorespiratory status and physiologic maturity, not age. The i-Rainbow improved the delivery of developmental care activities in our unit and was well received by parents and nurses. Supplemental Digital Content available at: http://links.lww.com/PPT/A516.

To investigate sociodemographic and healthcare system barriers to access and utilization of alternative treatments to positive airway pressure (PAP) in the management of adult obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science databases were searched from 2003 to 2023 for English-language studies containing original data on sociodemographic and healthcare system barriers to PAP-alternative treatments for adult OSA. Studies were assessed using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guidelines. Title and abstract screening, full-text review, and data collection were conducted by two investigators independently. Out of 1,615 studies screened, 13 studies met inclusion criteria and reported on a total of 1,206,115 patients who received PAP alternative treatments, including surgery (n = 9 studies), and oral appliances (OAs) (n = 3 studies). The chance of receiving a PAP-alternative treatment such as surgery was greater among patients aged 39 years or younger, had body mass index below 30 kg/m Cumulative evidence suggests that several sociodemographic and healthcare system factors are associated with decreased use of PAP alternatives when PAP therapy fails. Investigation of interventions to eliminate these potential barriers may improve access and treatment outcomes. Laryngoscope, 134:3903-3909, 2024.

The National Institute of Health and Care Research (NIHR), funds, enables and delivers world-leading health and social care research to improve people's health and wellbeing. To achieve this aim, effective knowledge sharing (two-way knowledge sharing between researchers and stakeholders to create new knowledge and enable change in policy and practice) is needed. To date, it is not known which knowledge sharing techniques and approaches are used or how effective these are in creating new knowledge that can lead to changes in policy and practice in NIHR funded studies. In this restricted systematic review, electronic databases [MEDLINE, The Health Management Information Consortium (including the Department of Health's Library and Information Services and King's Fund Information and Library Services)] were searched for published NIHR funded studies that described knowledge sharing between researchers and other stakeholders. One researcher performed title and abstract, full paper screening and quality assessment (Critical Appraisal Skills Programme qualitative checklist) with a 20% sample independently screened by a second reviewer. A narrative synthesis was adopted. In total 9897 records were identified. After screening, 17 studies were included. Five explicit forms of knowledge sharing studies were identified: embedded models, knowledge brokering, stakeholder engagement and involvement of non-researchers in the research or service design process and organisational collaborative partnerships between universities and healthcare organisations. Collectively, the techniques and approaches included five types of stakeholders and worked with them at all stages of the research cycle, except the stage of formation of the research design and preparation of funding application. Seven studies (using four of the approaches) gave examples of new knowledge creation, but only one study (using an embedded model approach) gave an example of a resulting change in practice. The use of a theory, model or framework to explain the knowledge sharing process was identified in six studies. Five knowledge sharing techniques and approaches were reported in the included NIHR funded studies, and seven studies identified the creation of new knowledge. However, there was little investigation of the effectiveness of these approaches in influencing change in practice or policy.

Presentations are an important means of knowledge generation. Publication of these studies is important for dissemination of findings beyond meeting attendees. We analyzed a 10-year sample of presented abstracts at Plastic Surgery The Meeting and describe factors that improve rate and speed of conversion to peer-reviewed publication. Abstracts presented between 2010 and 2019 at Plastic Surgery The Meeting were sourced from the American Society of Plastic Surgery Abstract Archive. A random sample of 100 abstracts from each year was evaluated. Abstract information and demographics were recorded. The title or author and keywords of each abstract were searched using a standardized workflow to find a corresponding published paper on PubMed, Google Scholar, and Google. Data were analyzed for trends and factors affecting conversion rate. A total of 983 presented abstracts were included. The conversion rate was 54.1%. Residents and fellows constituted the largest proportion of presenters (38.4%). There was a significant increase in medical student and research fellow presenters during the study period (P < 0.001). Conversion rate was not affected by the research rank of a presenter's affiliated institution (β = 1.001, P = 0.89), geographic location (P = 0.60), or subspecialty tract (P = 0.73). US academics had a higher conversion rate (61.8%) than US nonacademics (32.7%) or international presenters (47.1%) (P < 0.001). Medical students had the highest conversion rate (65.6%); attendings had the lowest (45.0%). Research fellows had the lowest average time to publication (11.6 months, P = 0.007). Lower levels of training, factors associated with increased institution-level support, and research quality affect rate and time to publication. These findings highlight the success of current models featuring medical student and research fellow-led projects with strong resident and faculty mentorship.

To understand the strategies used to continue providing psychosocial support to cancer patients during the pandemic, including outcomes and implications beyond the pandemic. A systematic review of original research. ProQuest Health & Medicine, CINAHL Complete (via EBSCOhost), Scopus, and PubMed were searched for original work published between January 2020 and December 2022. Abstract and title screening identified eligible articles for full-text review. Following a full-text review, data were extracted from eligible articles, and a risk of bias assessment was conducted. A synthesis without meta-analysis was performed. Thirty-four articles met the selection criteria. These articles provide evidence that systematic adaptations during the pandemic improved the assessment and screening of psychological needs and/or increased the number of clients accessing services. Additionally, while the pandemic was associated with decreased psychosocial well-being for cancer patients, five intervention studies reported improvements in psychosocial well-being. Barriers, strategies, and recommendations were described. Adapting psychosocial support during a pandemic can be successful, achieved relatively quickly, and can increase the uptake of support for people experiencing cancer. It is imperative that these adaptations continue beyond the pandemic to maximize adaptive psychosocial outcomes for a group vulnerable to ongoing mental health concerns. While the COVID-19 pandemic was associated with increased psychosocial need for cancer patients, evidence in the review suggested that adaptations made to service delivery facilitated increased access for patients who may not previously have been able to access support. Additionally, improvements in psychosocial well-being were achieved. These findings are relevant for clinicians and decision-makers who fund and design psychosocial support services for cancer patients. The review was guided by PRISMA Guidelines and the SWiM Reporting Guideline. No patient or public contribution.

One of the most significant demographic challenges over the past three decades has been the substantial reduction in fertility rates, worldwidely. As a developing country, Iran has also experienced a rapid decline in fertility over the past decades. Understanding factors influencing fertility is essential for development programs. Moreover, it's crucial to study the parameters that affect the intention for childbearing in any society. Therefore, through a systematic scoping review, the present study investigates the factors influencing couples' decisions toward childbearing. This study was a systematic scoping review conducted in 2023. To design and conduct this scoping review, Joanna Briggs Institute's Protocol (Institute TJB, The Joanna Briggs Institute Reviewers ' manual 2015; methodology for JBI scoping reviews, 2015) was used and the framework presented by Levac et al. (2010) was also used as a guide for conducting this review. Studies were searched in three main databases including ISI Web of Sciences, PubMed, and Scopus, using a predefined search strategy. Google Scholar was also used for complementary search. The search period was from 2002 to 2022. A total of 18,454 studies were identified across three primary databases. After evaluating articles in three distinct phases based on title, abstract, and full-text, 46 articles were deemed eligible for inclusion in the scoping review. The qualitative analysis of the collected data from the selected studies through the scoping review led to classifying factors influencing households' desire for childbearing into eight main themes and 101 sub-themes. The main themes associated with factors impacting households' intention for childbearing encompass individual determinants, demographic and familial influencing factors, cultural elements, social factors, health-related aspects, economic considerations, insurance-related variables, and government support/incentive policies. Comprehensive and holistic attention from governments and officials toward the various factors affecting households' intention and behavior regarding childbearing appears beneficial and effective. Furthermore, given the relative ineffectiveness of some of the current government's supportive/incentive policies to increase couples' desire for childbearing, it seems necessary to review and amend these policies. This review should address the most significant challenges and factors contributing to couples' reluctance to childbearing or strengthen factors that can play a substantial role in fostering fertility and childbearing desires.

This review aimed to synthesize the experiences of patients with metachromatic leukodystrophy, adrenoleukodystrophy, or Krabbe disease and the experiences of their families. Leukodystrophies are metabolic diseases caused by genetic mutations. There are multiple forms of the disease, varying in age of onset and symptoms. The progression of leukodystrophies worsens central nervous system symptoms and significantly affects the lives of patients and their families. Qualitative studies on the experiences of patients with leukodystrophies and their family members were included. These experiences included treatments such as enzyme replacement therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation; effects of tracheostomy and gastrostomy; burdens on the family, coordinating care within the health care system, and family planning due to genetic disorders. This review considered studies in any setting. MEDLINE (Ovid), CINAHL Plus (EBSCOhost), APA PsycINFO (EBSCOhost), Scopus, and MedNar databases were searched on November 18, 2022. Study selection, critical appraisal, data extraction, and data synthesis were conducted in accordance with the JBI methodology for systematic reviews of qualitative evidence, and synthesized findings were evaluated according to the ConQual approach. Eleven studies were eligible for synthesis, and 45 findings were extracted corresponding with participants' voices. Of these findings, 40 were unequivocal and 5 were credible. The diseases in the included studies were metachromatic leukodystrophy and adrenoleukodystrophy; no studies were identified for patients with Krabbe disease and their families. These findings were grouped into 11 categories and integrated into 3 synthesized findings, including i) providing care by family members and health care providers as physical symptoms progress, which relates to the effects of the characteristics of progressive leukodystrophies; ii) building medical teamwork to provide appropriate support services, comprising categories related to the challenges experienced with the health care system for patients with leukodystrophy and their families; and iii) coordinating family functions to accept and cope with the disease, which included categories related to family psychological difficulties and role divisions within the family. According to the ConQual criteria, the second synthesized finding had a low confidence level, and the first and third synthesized findings had a very low confidence level. The synthesized findings of this review provide evidence on the experiences of patients with metachromatic leukodystrophy or adrenoleukodystrophy and their families. These findings indicate that there are challenges in managing a patient's physical condition and coordinating the health care system and family functions. PROSPERO CRD42022318805. A Japanese-language version of the abstract of this review is available [ http://links.lww.com/SRX/A49 ].

Accessible Summary What is known on the subject Health professionals, including nurses, are shown to have stigmatizing attitudes towards mental illness. For nursing students who are in their formative years of professional development, mental illness stigma can severely impact the care they provide. Little research has investigated multi-national comparisons of nursing students' attitudes towards mental illness. What this paper adds to existing knowledge This study shows that between countries, there were substantial differences amongst nursing students in stigmatizing attitudes towards mental illness. Cultural perspectives may explain some of these differences. What are the implications for practice Regardless of location, stigmatizing attitudes are present at varying levels. Each nation can take steps to reduce these by acknowledging the presence of stigmatizing attitudes amongst nurses, educating nurses regarding the negative impacts of stigma on patient outcomes, and decrease stigmatizing attitudes by facilitating opportunities for nurses (particularly student nurses) to have direct contact with people with lived experiences of mental illness. INTRODUCTION: Stigmatizing attitudes perpetuated by nursing professionals are a pervasive problem for people experiencing mental health issues. This global issue has detrimental consequences; inhibiting one's life chances and help-seeking behaviours. To date, few studies have compared nursing students' attitudes towards mental illness from a multi-national perspective. To compare undergraduate nursing students' attitudes towards mental illness across six countries: Australia, India, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan and USA. In a cross-sectional design, data were collected from undergraduate nursing students (N = 426) using the Social Distance Scale. A one-way analysis of variance was used to compare differences between countries. Nursing students' attitudes to mental illness differed between countries. Social Distance Scores were highest amongst nursing students from Jordan and Saudi Arabia. Students from Taiwan and India possessed moderate stigma scores. Social Distance Scores from the USA and Australia were lowest. Clear differences in stigmatizing attitudes emerged between countries; these are discussed in relation to possible cultural influences. It is suggested that educating nurses, combined with direct contact with people with lived experiences of mental illness, can reduce stigmatizing attitudes regardless of country, location or educational institution.

The present article discusses victimization, perpetration, and denial in mass atrocities, using four recent case studies from Southeast Asia. The four cases include Indonesia (in which hundreds of thousands died in anti-Communist violence), Cambodia (in which the Khmer Rouge killed more than one million civilians), East Timor (in which more than one hundred thousand civilians died during the Indonesian occupation), and Myanmar (in which the state/army is accused of genocide toward the Rohingyas). Our aim is to bring a psychological lens to these histories, with a focus on three processes relevant to genocide. We examine, first, how the victims were targeted; second, how the perpetrators were mobilized; and third, the denial, justification, meaning-making, and commemoration of the atrocities. We propose a novel theoretical model, TOPASC: A Theory of the Psychology of Atrocities in Societal Contexts, highlighting the psychology of atrocities as involving factors across the macro, meso, and micro contexts. We introduce a new model, "TOPASC: A Theory of the Psychology of Atrocities in Societal Contexts," to explain why people justify mass killings and why certain group members are consistently targeted. In our model, we explore how mass atrocities against specific groups are influenced by psychological dynamics in intergroup situations which, in turn, are shaped by socio-historical contexts and individual psychologies. To illustrate these ideas, we analyze four cases of mass atrocities in Southeast Asia: Indonesia, Cambodia, East Timor, and Myanmar. These cases highlight how different social groups, characterized by diverse ideologies, ethnicities, genders, or religions, exhibit varying vulnerabilities as perpetrators or victims based on their social and power status. Mass atrocities are not sudden occurrences but rather result from a series of complex processes and events.

Informed consent is an essential process in clinical decision-making, through which healthcare providers educate patients about benefits, risks, and alternatives of a procedure. Statistical risk information is difficult to communicate and the effectiveness of aids aimed at supporting this type of communication is uncertain. This systematic review aims to study the impact of risk communication adjuncts on patients' understanding of statistical risk in surgery and interventional procedures. A systematic search was performed across Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, Scopus, and Web of Science until July 2021 with a repeated search in September 2022. RCTs and observational studies examining risk communication tools (e.g., information leaflets and audio-video) in adult (age >16) patients undergoing a surgical or interventional procedure were included. Primary outcomes included the objective assessment of statistical risk recall. Secondary outcomes included patient attitudes with respect to statistical information. Due to the study heterogeneity, a narrative synthesis was performed. A total of 4348 articles were identified, and following abstract and full-text screening 14 articles, including 9 RCTs, were included. The total number of adult patients was 1513. The most common risk communication tool used was written information (n = 7). Most RCTs (7/9, 77.8%) showed statistically significant improvements in patient understanding of statistical risk in the intervention group. Quality assessment found some concerns with all RCTs. Risk communication tools appear to improve recall of statistical risk. Additional prospective trials comparing various aids simultaneously are warranted to determine the most effective method of improving understanding.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: People living with schizophrenia have reduced physical function and are more likely to experience loneliness than those without condition. Low physical function is associated with greater loneliness in people with psychosis. However, it is unclear whether social isolation and loneliness contribute to impaired physical function in this population. Loneliness is linked to an increased risk of physical function impairment among older individuals, but research on patients living with schizophrenia is limited. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study is the first to evaluate the longitudinal association of social isolation and loneliness with physical function among inpatients living with schizophrenia. It showed that more than one third of the participants experienced a decline in physical function over a 2-year period. Loneliness, rather than social isolation, was associated with an increase in physical function impairment over 2 years among inpatients living with schizophrenia. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Healthcare professionals should recognize loneliness as a potential risk factor for impaired physical function among inpatients diagnosed with schizophrenia. It is recommended that people living with schizophrenia are assessed for loneliness and that interventions are offered to alleviate their feelings of loneliness. Implementing interventions to reduce loneliness may help improve physical function and overall quality of life for individuals living with schizophrenia. INTRODUCTION: Patients living with schizophrenia often experience low physical function, which is associated with negative health outcomes. Therefore, investigating the risk factors for physical function is crucial in this population. This study examined the longitudinal association of social isolation and loneliness with physical function among inpatients living with schizophrenia. Physical function was assessed using measures of activities daily living (ADL), instrumental activities daily living (IADL) and the combination scores of ADL/IADL. Social isolation was indexed with five types of social connection and loneliness was measured using UCLA Loneliness Scale. Social isolation was not associated with the measures of physical function over 2 years. Loneliness exhibited an association with IADL and ADL/IADL at follow-up, after adjustment for baseline levels of the outcomes. These associations remained when both social isolation and loneliness were simultaneously entered into the model. Loneliness, rather than social isolation, was associated with increased physical function impairment over 2 years among inpatients living with schizophrenia. Healthcare professionals should consider loneliness as a potential risk factor for impaired physical function. It would be beneficial to assess patients for loneliness and implement interventions to reduce feelings of loneliness.

The objective of this mixed methods review was to examine the effectiveness and family experiences of interventions promoting partnerships between families and the multidisciplinary health care team in pediatric and neonatal intensive care units. Hospitalization of infants and children in neonatal intensive care units and pediatric intensive care units has a significant effect on their families, including increased stress, anxiety, and depression. Available evidence syntheses focused on specific family-centered care, but not on partnership, which is another aspect that may improve families' outcomes and experiences. This review considered studies that focused on effectiveness or family experiences of interventions by health professionals in partnership with families of infants or children hospitalized in an intensive care unit. For the quantitative component of the review, the type of intervention was a partnership between the health care team and the family, and focused on outcomes of stress, anxiety, depression, quality of life, attachment, or satisfaction with family-centered care. For the qualitative component, the phenomenon of interest was family experiences of interventions that included collaboration and partnering with the health care team in the pediatric or neonatal intensive care unit. Quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods studies, published from 2000 to August 2022 in English or French, were eligible for inclusion. The JBI methodology for convergent segregated mixed methods systematic reviews was followed using the standardized JBI critical appraisal and data extraction tools. Ten databases were searched in December 2019 and again in August 2022. Study selection, critical appraisal, and data extraction were performed by 2 reviewers independently. Findings of quantitative studies were statistically pooled through meta-analysis and those that could not be pooled were reported narratively. Qualitative studies were pooled through meta-synthesis. This review included 6 qualitative and 42 quantitative studies. The methodological quality varied, and all studies were included regardless of methodological quality. Meta-analyses showed improvements in anxiety, satisfaction with family-centered care, and stress, yet no conclusive effects in attachment and depression. These results should be interpreted with caution due to high heterogeneity. Qualitative analysis resulted in 2 synthesized findings: "Interventions that incorporate partnerships between families and the health care team can improve the family's experience and capacity to care for the child" and "Having a child in intensive care can be an experience of significant impact for families." Integration of quantitative and qualitative evidence revealed some congruence between findings; however, the paucity of qualitative evidence minimized the depth of this integration. Partnership interventions can have a positive impact on parents of children in intensive care units, with improvements reported in stress, anxiety, and satisfaction with family-centered care. PROSPERO CRD42019137834. A Chinese-language version of the abstract of this review is available at http://links.lww.com/SRX/A50 . A French-language version of the abstract of this review is available at http://links.lww.com/SRX/A51 .

Immigrants to Canada count among the socially disadvantaged groups experiencing higher rates of oral disease. Culturally competent oral health care providers (OHCPs) stand to be allies for immigrant oral health. The literature reveals limited knowledge of practising OHCPs' cultural competency, and little synthesis of the topic has been completed. A scoping review is warranted to identify and map current knowledge of OHCPs' understanding of culturally competent care along with barriers and facilitators to developing capacity. This study was conducted between December 2022 and April 2023 using Arksey and O'Malley's 5-step framework and PRISMA-ScR checklist. Four databases were searched using keywords related to 4 themes: population, provider, oral health, and cultural competence. Peer-reviewed articles published in English in the last 10 years were included. Search results yielded 74 articles. Title and abstract review was completed and an author-developed critical appraisal tool was applied. Forty-six (46) articles were subject to full-text review and 14 met eligibility criteria: 7 qualitative and 7 quantitative. Six barriers and six facilitators at individual and systemic levels were identified, affecting oral care for immigrants and providers' ability to work cross-culturally. Lack of cultural or linguistically appropriate resources, guidance, and structural supports were identified as contributing to low utilization of services and to lack of familiarity between providers and immigrants. OHCPs' cultural competency development is required to improve oral health care access and outcomes for diverse populations. Further research is warranted to identify factors impeding OHCPs' capacity to provide culturally sensitive care. Intentional policy development and knowledge mobilization are needed.

Studies from high-income populations have shown that stimulating, supportive communicative input from parents promote children's cognitive and language development. However, fewer studies have identified specific features of input supporting the healthy development of children growing up in low- or middle-income countries. The current study proposes and tests a multi-dimensional framework for understanding whether and how caregiver communicative input mediates the associations between socio-economic conditions and early development. We also examine how caregiver conceptual scaffolding and autonomy support uniquely and synergistically explain variation in child outcomes. Participants were 71 Bangladeshi families with five-year-olds who were exposed to a range of biological and psychosocial hazards from birth. Caregiver-child interactions during snack sharing and semi-structured play were coded for caregiver conceptual scaffolding, autonomy support, and child engagement. Findings indicate that the two dimensions of input were correlated, suggesting that caregivers who provided richer conceptual scaffolds were simultaneously more supportive of children's autonomy. Notably, conceptual scaffolding and autonomy support each mediated associations between maternal education and child verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) scores. Further, caregivers who supported greater autonomy in their children had children who participated in conversations more actively, and these children in turn had higher performance IQ scores. When considered simultaneously, conceptual scaffolding was associated with verbal IQ over and above autonomy support, whereas autonomy support related to child engagement, controlling for conceptual scaffolding. These findings shed new light on how environmental factors may support early development, contributing to the design of family-centered, culturally authentic interventions. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/9v_8sIv7ako RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Studies from high-income countries have identified factors mitigating the impacts of socio-economic risks on development. Such research is scarce in low- and middle-income countries. The present study conceptualized and evaluated caregiver communicative input in Bangladeshi families along two interrelated yet distinct dimensions: conceptual scaffolding and autonomy support. Conceptual scaffolding and autonomy support individually mediated associations between maternal education and child verbal IQ, shedding light on protective factors in families living in poverty. Parents providing richer conceptual scaffolds were simultaneously more supportive of children's autonomy. However, the two dimensions each related to cognition and language through unique pathways.

Guidelines recommend screening those with a family history of early-onset colorectal cancer at age 40 years or 10 years before the age of their relative's diagnosis. Currently, there is no literature reporting the screening rate in these individuals, and no protocols are in place to identify and target this population for screening awareness. This study aimed to assess adherence to current screening guidelines among first-degree relatives of patients with early-onset colorectal cancer. Retrospective and qualitative study involving a telephone survey where patients were asked about relative's screening status and barriers to screening. Two community-based institutions between January 2018 and December 2021. Individuals diagnosed with early-onset colorectal cancer who had undergone surgery at our institutions. Rate of screening in first-degree relatives of our patients with early-onset colorectal cancer. Other factors measured included demographics, clinicopathologic characteristics, and screening barriers. Thirty-six patients were identified. The survey response rate was 66.6% (n = 24). A total of 88 first-degree relatives who met the screening criteria resulted in 67.1% of patients (n = 59) having a known screening status. Of the 59 patients with known screening status, only 44% (n = 26) had undergone screening. Patients of Black race, having stage III/IV disease, having Medicare/Medicaid insurance, and living within Baltimore City County were more likely to have family members with unknown or no screening. Lack of insurance coverage was the most common barrier, which was noted in 12.5% of patients (n = 3), whereas 54.1% of patients (n = 13) reported no barriers to screening. Retrospective design. Most first-degree relatives of patients diagnosed with early-onset colorectal cancer do not undergo colorectal cancer screening. This could be attributed to the lack of protocols that could guarantee these individuals are informed of their elevated risk and the different options available for screening. Furthermore, our study suggests that racial and socioeconomic disparities exist among high-risk patients who should pursue screening. See Video Abstract . ANTECEDENTES:Las directrices recomiendan realizar pruebas de detección a las personas con antecedentes familiares de cáncer colorrectal de aparición temprana a los 40 años o 10 años antes de la edad del diagnóstico de su familiar. Actualmente, no hay literatura que informe la tasa de detección en estos individuos y no existen protocolos para identificar y dirigirse a esta población para concientizar sobre la detección.OBJETIVO:Evaluar el cumplimiento de las pautas de detección actuales entre los FDR de pacientes con cáncer colorrectal de aparición temprana.DISEÑO:Estudio retrospectivo y cualitativo que incluyó una encuesta telefónica en la que se preguntó a los pacientes sobre el estado de detección de sus familiares y las barreras para la detección.AJUSTES:Dos instituciones comunitarias entre enero de 2018 y diciembre de 2021.PACIENTES:Personas diagnosticadas con cáncer colorrectal de inicio temprano que habían sido intervenidas quirúrgicamente en nuestras instituciones.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:Tasa de detección en familiares de primer grado de nuestros pacientes con cáncer colorrectal de aparición temprana. Otros factores medidos incluyeron datos demográficos, características clínico-patológicas y barreras de detección.RESULTADOS:Se identificaron treinta y seis pacientes. La tasa de respuesta a la encuesta fue del 66,6% (n = 24). Resultaron un total de 88 familiares de primer grado que cumplieron con los criterios para la detección, y el 67,1% (n = 59) tenía un estado de detección conocido. De los 59 con estado de detección conocido, se informó que solo el 44% (n = 26) se había sometido a pruebas de detección. Los pacientes de raza afroamericana, enfermedad en etapa III/IV, Medicare/Medicaid y que vivían dentro del condado de la ciudad de Baltimore tenían más probabilidades de tener familiares con pruebas de detección desconocidas o sin ellas. La falta de cobertura de seguro fue la barrera más común observada por el 12,5% (n = 3); mientras que el 54,1% (n = 13) no informó ninguna barrera para el cribado.LIMITACIONES:Diseño retrospectivo.CONCLUSIONES:La mayoría de los familiares de primer grado de pacientes diagnosticados con cáncer colorrectal de aparición temprana no se someten a pruebas de detección de cáncer colorrectal. Esto podría atribuirse a la falta de protocolos que garanticen que estas personas estén informadas sobre su elevado riesgo y las diferentes opciones disponibles para el cribado. Además, nuestro estudio sugiere que existen disparidades raciales y socioeconómicas entre los pacientes de alto riesgo que deberían someterse a pruebas de detección. (Traducción-Dr. Francisco M. Abarca-Rendon).

Adult psychiatric services typically focus on the mental health needs of the client but they do not support his or her parenting role. Many authors highlight the importance of a non-judgmental approach when providing support and care to clients with mental illness who are parents. Assessments frequently focus on the negative aspects while the strengths of these families were often overlooked. There is a lack of scientific literature exploring nurses' experiences when caring for parents with mental illness and their families. Trust is the basis that helps clients to be open to receiving care and answering parenting-related questions. Therefore, without adequate professional-client trust, some care and interventions addressed to parents with mental illness could be poorly received by the client. Tronto's phases of care facilitated the collection of data and exploration of mental health nurses' experiences of care. Mental health nurses should be aware of the potential needs of these families, as described in the scientific literature, so they can include them in their assessments. They also should consider the need to individualize each care since each situation of a family with parental mental illness is unique. Mental health nurses must take the person's environment into account (family, social and political aspects and different forms of stigma) since all these factors may influence how parents with mental illness receive and provide care. Introduction Many authors highlight the importance of a non-judgmental approach when providing care to parents with mental illness. However, assessments frequently focus on the negative aspects while the strengths of such families were often overlooked. Aim To explore the lived experiences of mental health nurses who care for clients who are parents. Method We conducted a qualitative phenomenological study. The main data collection technique was in-depth interviews. Data were analysed according to Colaizzi model, subsequently, the main categories that arised were compared and related to the five phases of Tronto's care. Results The main categories identified from the analysis of the interviews were: (1) individualized care, (2) continuity of care, (3) psychoeducation and counselling, (4) trust and (5) context of the client. Discussion Trust is the basis that helps parents with mental illness to be open to receiving care and answering parenting-related questions. Without trust, some interventions could be poorly received by the client. Implications for Practice Mental health nurses should be aware of the potential needs of these families, so they can include them in their assessments. They also should consider the need to individualize each care since each situation of a family with parental mental illness is unique.

In light of the increasing age of first-time fathers, this article summarizes the current scientific knowledge base on reproductive aging in the male, including sperm quality and health impacts for the offspring. The emerging role of NAD decline in reproductive aging is highlighted. Over the past decades, the age of first-time fathers has been steadily increasing due to socio-economic pressures. While general mechanisms of aging are subject to intensive research, male reproductive aging has remained an understudied area, and the effects of increased age on the male reproductive system are still only poorly understood, despite new insights into the potential dire consequences of advanced paternal age for the health of their progeny. There is also growing evidence that reproductive aging is linked to overall health in men, but this review mainly focuses on pathophysiological consequences of old age in men, such as low sperm count and diminished sperm genetic integrity, with an emphasis on mechanisms underlying reproductive aging. The steady decline of NAD levels observed in aging men represents one of the emerging concepts in that regard. Because it offers some mechanistic rationale explaining the effects of old age on the male reproductive system, some of the NAD-dependent functions in male reproduction are briefly outlined in this review. The overview also provides many questions that remain open about the basic science of male reproductive aging.

Older adults are frequently hospitalized. Family involvement during these hospitalizations is incompletely characterized in the literature. This study aimed to better understand how families are involved in the care of hospitalized older adults and develop a conceptual model describing the phenomenon of family involvement in the care of hospitalized older adults. We describe the protocol of a qualitative evidence synthesis (QES), a systematic review of qualitative studies. We chose to focus on qualitative studies given the complexity and multifaceted nature of family involvement in care, a type of topic best understood through qualitative inquiry. The protocol describes our process of developing a research question and eligibility criteria for inclusion in our QES based on the SPIDER (Sample, Phenomenon of Interest, Design, Evaluation, and Research type) tool. It describes the development of our search strategy, which was used to search MEDLINE (via Ovid), Embase (via Elsevier), PsycINFO (via Ovid), and CINAHL Complete (via EBSCO). Title and abstract screening and full-text screening will occur sequentially. Purposive sampling may be used depending on the volume of studies identified as eligible for inclusion during our screening process. Descriptive data regarding included individual studies will be extracted and summarized in tables. The results from included studies will be synthesized using qualitative methods and used to develop a conceptual model. The conceptual model will be presented to community members via engagement panels for further refinement. As of September 2023, we have assembled a multidisciplinary team including physicians, nurses, health services researchers, a librarian, a social worker, and a health economist. We have finalized our search strategy and executed the search, yielding 8862 total citations. We are currently screening titles and abstracts and anticipate that full-text screening, data extraction, quality appraisal, and synthesis will be completed by summer of 2024. Conceptual model development will then take place with community engagement panels. We anticipate submitting our manuscript for publication in the fall of 2024. This paper describes the protocol for a QES of family involvement in the care of hospitalized older adults. We will use identified themes to create a conceptual model to inform further intervention development and policy change. PROSPERO 465617; https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?ID=CRD42023465617. PRR1-10.2196/53255.

This scoping review was undertaken to obtain conceptual clarification about how racism and cultural safety are understood by interdisciplinary health professionals globally in the aged care sector in regional, rural and remote areas. There is evidence in Australia and internationally that racism is a factor impacting significantly on the health of First Peoples and other racialised minorities. Recent policy changes in Australia have required health professionals to integrate cultural safety into their practice to mitigate racism and improve the health of older First Nations Australians and older people from diverse ethnic and cultural groups. This review consisted of literature published in English from 1990, including published primary studies; systematic, integrative and narrative reviews; meta-analyses; theses; policy documents; guidelines; position statements; and government literature. Ovid (MEDLINE), CINAHL Plus with Full Text, Scopus, Proquest Nursing and Allied Health Database, and Informit were used in the full search. The most recent search of all databases was undertaken on 9 May 2022. Ten papers were included in the review, following the exclusion of 376 papers. A title and abstract search of the reference lists of papers included in the review identified no additional papers. Ten papers were included in the review from Australia, Canada, the US, Norway and England. The literature reviewed suggests that health professionals in the aged care sector in regional, rural and remote areas in Australia, Canada, the US, Norway and England use alternative terms to 'racism' and 'racist', such as 'institutional marginalisation'. The absence of explicit reference to racism aligns with critical race research that argues implicit bias and institutional racism are often separated from an individualised understanding of racism. That is, practitioners may understand racism as something that is perpetrated by individuals in an otherwise 'neutral' health setting. There is also a lack of clarity on how culturally safe care is understood, even though individual care plans are viewed as instrumental in establishing the needs and preferences of the consumers. Within the literature surveyed, barriers to providing quality and culturally inclusive care include disengaged management, insufficient human and material resources, language barriers and a lack of education focused on the needs of older individuals and groups with various cultural and spiritual needs. Additionally, the review does not clearly illuminate what health professionals understand to be racist thinking or behaviour and how it is responded to in practice. Likewise, there is limited information about health professionals' understanding of cultural safety and how to provide culturally inclusive care. While work is beginning on developing standards for cultural safety training in an Australian context, there are also opportunities to consider how these should be applied or adapted to residential and community aged care to best meet the needs of a diverse consumer base and workforce.

Workplace violence, including violent, intimidating, and disruptive acts, commonly occurs in healthcare settings. Type 2 workplace violence in nursing refers to patient/visitor behaviors directed toward clinicians, contributing to physical and psychological harm. Nurse victims often do not report these events to employers or law enforcement, making it challenging to address workplace violence. Our research examined nurse reactions to Type 2 workplace violence by identifying what behaviors they perceived as aggressive and reportable. Specific aims included: 1) developing and testing video vignettes to portray realistic patient aggression scenarios; 2) identifying nurse understandings of aggressive events that prompt affective reactions, and; 3) examining clinical characteristics related to the nurse victim's likelihood to report. Through a sequential mixed-methods design, we qualitatively developed novel video vignettes portraying Type 2 workplace violence to experimentally examine how nurses interpreted them within a quantitative repeated measures survey. Two expert nurse research panels (n = 10) created five vignettes, from which nurses (n = 282) completed a survey with 1382 unique responses. Analyses included descriptive statistics and repeated measures ANOVA/regression models. Video vignettes realistically portrayed workplace violence events, eliciting negative emotional responses among nurses that increased in magnitude with statistical significance as the level of displayed aggression escalated. Statistically significant factors influencing nurse reporting of workplace violence included; 1) the level of aggression displayed by the patient; 2) the level of harm received by the nurse; 3) whether the nurse felt the patient's actions were intentional, and; 4) the nurse's perceived frequency of exposure to workplace violence. Results suggested that nurse victims of Type 2 workplace violence experience depression, anger, fear, and anxiety, which may contribute to long-term mental health consequences. Findings also identified factors related to nurse reporting behaviors, which may help mitigate workplace violence in healthcare settings by informing research and promoting workplace practices that encourage reporting and safety. Not registered. Nurse reactions to workplace violence: Video vignettes reveal escalating aggression's impact on reporting. #EndNurseAbuse #WorkplaceViolence.

Psychological interventions that are efficacious as treatments for depression could indirectly affect suicide-related outcomes. We examined suicidal thoughts and behaviours as eligibility criteria, outcomes, and adverse events across trials of psychotherapy for depression. We used a publicly available meta-analytic database developed through systematic searches (updated as of May 1, 2023) to identify randomised controlled trials in which a psychological intervention for depression was compared with an inactive or non-specific control condition in adults with depression and in which any suicide-related outcomes were reported. We also identified studies in which suicide risk was an exclusion criterion. We excluded inpatient studies and trials of unguided digital interventions or collaborative care that included a psychological component. Pairs of reviewers worked independently to select studies and extract data. In a random-effects meta-analysis with robust variance estimation, we assessed the effect of the psychological intervention on suicide outcomes in trials in which suicide was explicitly assessed as an outcome with clinical scales with established psychometric properties. Risk of bias was assessed with the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool (version 2). Of the 469 randomised trials we identified in which a psychological intervention was compared with an inactive control in people with depression, 251 excluded people judged at risk of suicide. Any assessment of suicide was included in only 45 trials, 12 of which assessed suicidal ideation or risk as an outcome. These 12 trials included 3930 participants, 2795 (71%) of whom were female and 1135 (29%) of whom were male; data for age and ethnicity were not consistently reported. Psychological interventions for depression were associated with a small reduction in suicidal ideation and risk in 11 trials (one trial reported only follow-up data) after the intervention (standardised mean difference -0·31 [95% CI -0·60 to -0·03]) but not at follow-up (-0·49 [-1·31 to 0·32]). Suicide-related adverse events were reported in 25 trials, and suicide-related serious adverse events (eg, suicide attempts, deaths by suicide) were reported in 13 trials. Heterogeneity was substantial across all analyses, and prediction intervals crossed zero. Trials of psychological interventions for depression rarely report assessments of suicide. Psychological interventions might reduce suicidal ideation in patients with depression, but more randomised controlled trials are required to clarify this effect. Monitoring and reporting of suicide-related adverse events should be improved in trials of psychological interventions for depression, and future trials should incorporate outcomes related to suicidal thoughts or behaviours. None. For the Spanish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

This study examines an important aspect of energy history and policy: the intertwinement of energy technologies with ideals. Ideals play an important role in energy visions and innovation pathways. Aspirations to realize technical, social, and political ideals indicate a long-term commitment in the design of energy systems, distinguishable from commitment to other abstract goals, such as values. This study offers an analytical scheme that could help to conceptualize these differences and their impact on energy policy. In the proposed model, two spheres of interaction are highlighted: a material sphere in which values and technologies co-evolve, and an imaginary sphere in which ideals interact with idealized technologies. Furthermore, the relation between these two spheres can be understood in different ways. This study examines three cases that are illustrative of the different roles of ideals in the development of energy technologies and visions: (1) the evolution of safety in nuclear reactor design; (2) visions of atomic power in France; (3) the political idealization of a tidal power scheme in the Severn Estuary. Finally, the developed model implies more general insights for the development of sociotechnical systems. Amongst others, it shows why certain projects and technologies remain a political, but not a techno-economic option.

In many contemporary societies, misinformation, epistemic arrogance, and intergroup conflict pose serious threats to social cohesion and well-being. Wisdom may offer a potential antidote to these problems, with a recently identified Common Wisdom Model (CWM) suggesting that wisdom involves epistemic virtues such as intellectual humility, openness to change, and perspective-taking. However, it is unclear whether these virtues are central for folk concepts of wisdom in non-Western contexts. We explored this question by conducting focus group discussions with 174 participants from the Philippines and Sri Lanka, two countries facing socio-political and economic challenges. We found that epistemic themes were common in both countries, but more so when participants were asked to define wisdom in general terms rather than to describe how it is acquired or expressed in daily lives. Moreover, epistemic themes were more prevalent among Filipino than Sri Lankan participants, especially when the questions posed were abstract rather than concrete. We discuss how these findings relate to the CWM and the socio-cultural contexts of the two countries, and suggest that a question format should be considered in cross-cultural research on wisdom.

The functional food market has experienced significant growth, leading to an uptick in clinical trials conducted by contract research organizations (CROs). Research focusing on CRO-managed trials and the communication of trial outcomes to the consumer market remains underexplored. This metaepidemiological study aims to evaluate the quality of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) facilitated by prominent CROs in Japan and to examine the quality of the representations used to convey their results to consumers. This study focused on the food trials that were registered in the University Hospital Medical Information Network Clinical Trial Registry or the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform by the top 5 CROs. Press releases of study results or advertisements of food products based on the study results were identified by conducting a Google search. The risk of bias in the RCT publications was independently assessed by 2 reviewers, who also evaluated the presence of "spin" in the abstracts and full texts. An assessment of "spin" in press releases/advertisements was undertaken. A total of 76 RCT registrations, 32 RCT publications, and 11 press releases/advertisements were included. Approximately 72% of the RCT publications exhibited a high risk of bias due to selective outcome reporting. "Spin" was present in the results of the abstract (72%), abstract conclusion (81%), full-text results (44%), and full-text conclusion (84%). "Spin" appeared in 73% of press releases/advertisements due to the selective outcome reporting. Functional food presentations in Japan frequently contained "spin." The Japanese government should more rigorously check whether food manufacturers report outcomes selectively.

To highlight the value of utilizing the Listening Guide methodology for nursing research and provide an exemplar applying this methodology to explore a novel concept in an underrepresented group-inner strength in persons newly diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment along with their care partners. Methodology discussion paper. The exemplar study used the Listening Guide methods for data elicitation and analysis. Methods included adaptations for the study population and novice qualitative researchers. The Listening Guide methodology with adaptations enabled the research team to centre the voices of persons living with mild cognitive impairment, highlight an abstract phenomenon and attend to the influences of the sociopolitical context. Further, this methodology helped address common challenges emerging qualitative researchers encounter, including understanding methods of application, engaging reflexively and immersing in the data. The Listening Guide is a voice-centred qualitative methodology that is well suited to foreground the experiences of groups underrepresented in research and explore emerging phenomena. Nurses are central to striving for health equity. The Listening Guide methodology offers a valuable and accessible research tool to understand the experiences and needs of underrepresented groups and shape healthcare in response. The Listening Guide methodology can be broadly applied to research with persons with mild cognitive impairment, and other underrepresented groups, to explore other phenomena beyond inner strength and move the science forward in representing the perspectives of groups underrepresented by research. Persons living with cognitive impairment and their care partners participated in study conceptualization, interview guide development, methods development and dissemination plans.

Using data in research often requires that the data first be de-identified, particularly in the case of health data, which often include Personal Identifiable Information (PII) and/or Personal Health Identifying Information (PHII). There are established procedures for de-identifying structured data, but de-identifying clinical notes, electronic health records, and other records that include free text data is more complex. Several different ways to achieve this are documented in the literature. This scoping review identifies categories of de-identification methods that can be used for free text data. We adopted an established scoping review methodology to examine review articles published up to May 9, 2022, in Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid Embase; Scopus; the ACM Digital Library; IEEE Explore; and Compendex. Our research question was: What methods are used to de-identify free text data? Two independent reviewers conducted title and abstract screening and full-text article screening using the online review management tool Covidence. The initial literature search retrieved 3,312 articles, most of which focused primarily on structured data. Eighteen publications describing methods of de-identification of free text data met the inclusion criteria for our review. The majority of the included articles focused on removing categories of personal health information identified by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The de-identification methods they described combined rule-based methods or machine learning with other strategies such as deep learning. Our review identifies and categorises de-identification methods for free text data as rule-based methods, machine learning, deep learning and a combination of these and other approaches. Most of the articles we found in our search refer to de-identification methods that target some or all categories of PHII. Our review also highlights how de-identification systems for free text data have evolved over time and points to hybrid approaches as the most promising approach for the future.

Socioeconomic inequities have implications for access to health care and may be associated with disparities in treatment and survival. To investigate the impact of socioeconomic inequities on time to treatment and survival of anal squamous-cell carcinoma. This is a retrospective study using a nationwide data set. The patients were selected from the National Cancer Database and enrolled from 2004 to 2016. We identified patients with stage I to III squamous-cell carcinoma of the anus who were treated with chemoradiation therapy. Socioeconomic factors, including race, insurance status, median household income, and percentage of the population with no high school degrees, were included. The association of these factors with treatment delay and overall survival was investigated. A total of 24,143 patients who underwent treatment for grade I to III squamous-cell carcinoma of the anus were identified. The median age was 60 years, and 70% of patients were women. The median time to initiation of treatment was 33 days. Patients from zip codes with lower median income, patients with a higher percentage of no high school degree, and patients with other government insurance followed by Medicaid insurance had treatment initiated after 60 days from diagnosis. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that the late-treatment group had worse overall survival compared to the early treatment group (98 vs 125 months; p < 0.001). No detailed information is available about the chemoradiotherapy regimen, completion of treatment, recurrence, disease-free survival, and individual-level socioeconomic condition and risk factors. Patients from communities with lower median income, level of education, and enrolled in public insurance had longer time to treatment. Lower socioeconomic status was also associated with poorer overall survival. These results warrant further analysis and measures to improve access to care to address this disparity. See Video Abstract . ANTECEDENTES:Las desigualdades socio-económicas tienen implicaciones en el acceso a la atención médica y pueden estar asociadas con disparidades en el tratamiento y la sobrevida.OBJETIVO:Indagar el impacto de las desigualdades socio-económicas sobre el tiempo de retraso en el tratamiento y la sobrevida en casos de carcinoma a células escamosas del ano (CCEA).DISEÑO:Estudio retrospectivo utilizando un conjunto de datos a nivel nacional.AJUSTES:Todos aquellos pacientes inscritos entre 2004 a 2016 y que fueron seleccionados de la Base Nacional de Datos sobre el Cáncer.PACIENTES:Identificamos pacientes con CCEA en estadíos I-III y que fueron tratados con radio-quimioterápia.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADOS:Se incluyeron factores socio-económicos tales como la raza, el tipo de seguro de salud, el ingreso familiar medio y el porcentaje de personas sin bachillerato de secundaria (SBS). Se investigó la asociación entre estos factores con el retraso en iniciar el tratamiento y la sobrevida global.RESULTADOS:Se identificaron un total de 24.143 pacientes que recibieron tratamiento para CCEA estadíos I-III. La mediana de edad fue de 60 años donde 70% eran de sexo femenino. La mediana del tiempo transcurrido desde el diagnóstico hasta el inicio del tratamiento fue de 33 días. Los pacientes residentes en zonas de código postal con ingresos medios más bajos, con un mayor porcentaje de individuos SBS y los pacientes con otro tipo de seguro gubernamental de salud, seguidos del seguro tipo Medicaid iniciaron el tratamiento solamente después de 60 días al diagnóstico inicial de CCEA. El análisis de Kaplan-Meier de la sobrevida mostró que el grupo de tratamiento tardío tuvo una peor supervivencia general comparada con el grupo de tratamiento precoz o temprano (98 frente a 125 meses; p <0,001).LIMITACIONES:No se dispone de información detallada sobre el tipo de radio-quimioterapia utilizada, ni sobre la finalización del tratamiento o la recurrencia, tampoco acerca de la sobrevida libre de enfermedad ni sobre las condiciones socio-económicas o aquellos factores de riesgo a nivel individual.CONCLUSIÓN:Los pacientes de comunidades con ingresos medios más bajos, con un nivel de educación limitado e inscritos en un seguro público tardaron mucho más tiempo en recibir el tratamiento prescrito. El nivel socio-económico más bajo también se asoció con una sobrevida global más baja. Los presentes resultados justifican mayor análisis y medidas mas importantes para mejorar el acceso a la atención en salud y poder afrontar esta disparidad. (Traducción-Dr. Xavier Delgadillo ).

Seahorses exhibit male pregnancy and are thus valuable comparative models for the study of the physiology and evolution of pregnancy. This study shows that protein is transported from fathers to developing embryos during gestation, and provides new knowledge about paternal contributions to embryonic development. Syngnathid embryos (seahorses, pipefishes and seadragons) develop on or in the male in a specialised brooding structure (brood pouch). Seahorse brood pouches supply nutrients, including lipids, to developing embryos (patrotrophy). We tested the hypothesis that proteins, vital for gene regulation and tissue growth during embryogenesis, are also transported from father to embryos, using the Australian pot-bellied seahorse, Hippocampus abdominalis. We used dry masses and total nitrogen content to estimate the total protein content of newly fertilised egg and neonate H. abdominalis. Neonates contained significantly greater protein mass than newly fertilised eggs. This result indicates that paternal protein transport to developing embryos occurs during H. abdominalis pregnancy. This study is the first to show paternal protein transport during pregnancy in seahorses, and furthers our understanding of paternal influence on embryonic development in male pregnant vertebrates.

Poverty-reduction efforts that seek to support households with children and enable healthy family functioning are vital to produce positive economic, health, developmental, and upward mobility outcomes. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) is an effective poverty-reduction policy for individuals and families. This study investigated the non-nutritional effects that families experience when receiving SNAP benefits. We conducted a scoping review using the PRISMA Guidelines and strategic search terms across seven databases from 01 January 2008 to 01 February 2023 (n=2456). Data extraction involved two researchers performing title-abstract reviews. Full-text articles were assessed for eligibility (n=103). Forty articles were included for data retrieval. SNAP positively impacts family health across the five categories of the Family Stress Model (Healthcare utilization for children and parents, Familial allocation of resources, Impact on child development and behavior, Mental health, and Abuse or neglect). SNAP is a highly effective program with growing evidence that it positively impacts family health and alleviates poverty. Four priority policy actions are discussed to overcome the unintentional barriers for SNAP: distributing benefits more than once a month; increasing SNAP benefits for recipients; softening the abrupt end of benefits when wages increase; and coordinating SNAP eligibility and enrollment with other programs.

Severe acute malnutrition (SAM) is the most serious form of acute malnutrition and is associated with high mortality risk among children under 5. While the Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) approach, recommended for treating cases of uncomplicated SAM, has increased treatment coverage and recovery outcomes, high relapse rates have been reported. Several risk factors for SAM relapse, such as insufficient food intake and high infectious disease burden in the community, have been identified. However, the role of household water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) conditions remains unclear. This systematic review: (1) assesses the effectiveness of WASH interventions on preventing SAM relapse and (2) identifies WASH-related conditions associated with relapse to SAM among children aged 6-59 months discharged as recovered following SAM CMAM treatment. We performed electronic searches of six databases to identify relevant studies published between 1 January 2000 and 6 November 2023 and assessed their quality. After deduplication, 10,294 documents were screened by title and abstract, with 13 retrieved for full-text screening. We included three studies ranging from low- to medium-quality. One intervention study found that providing a WASH kit during SAM outpatient treatment did not reduce the risk of relapse to SAM. Two observational studies found inconsistent associations between household WASH conditions-unimproved sanitation and unsafe drinking water-and SAM relapse. Despite the paucity of evidence, the hypothesised causal pathways between WASH conditions and the risk of relapse remain plausible. Further evidence is needed to identify interventions for an integrated postdischarge approach to prevent relapse.

This study assesses whether the Democratic Party holds issue ownership over science in the United States. We analyze data from a national survey that asked 1041 adults questions specifically designed to measure perceptions of science ownership. While the results suggest that the Democratic Party does hold a significant advantage in ownership of science in an abstract sense, perceptions of ownership of specific types of science vary across the two parties. Those who identify as Independents drive much of the aggregate perceptions of ownership of science, whereas partisans' perceptions of issue ownership of science are mostly driven by in-party favoritism. Post hoc analyses suggest that news media use contributes to perceptions of science ownership and reinforces affinity-party preference.

Self-harm in children and young people is increasing. Parents are vital in supporting young people; however, parents may experience distress linked to the self-harm. Previous reviews have highlighted the emotional impact and need for information and support, however, have not elucidated the relationships between these themes, nor examined the quantitative data examining parents' well-being. We conducted a mixed methods review, with qualitative meta-synthesis focusing on links between themes and quantitative synthesis of parental well-being findings, including pooled means. PsycInfo, Medline, EMBASE, AMED, CINHAL and Web of Science were searched to identify relevant records. References of included studies were also searched. Every abstract was screened by two authors. Data were extracted by one author and checked by another. We identified 39 reports of 32 studies: 16 with qualitative data and 17 with quantitative data (one had both). Qualitative findings showed how parents' emotions were associated to their knowledge and beliefs about self-harm. Parents' emotions often evidenced the need to self-care, but emotions of guilt reduced engagement in self-care. How parents supported their young person was linked to their knowledge, and the management of their own emotions, and influenced if they could engage in self-care. Quantitative findings were mixed, however suggested poor general mental health amongst these parents. Further good quality quantitative studies are needed, with measurement of psychological mechanisms that may underpin parental distress. Current evidence supports peer-support and interventions that go beyond information provision to address the connected factors of knowledge, emotion, self-care, and parenting behaviours.

Implementation of the German CSNAT-I to support family caregivers in palliative home care: Evaluation results 

Multiple states have enacted statutes to govern procedures when a state seeks to execute a person who may be incompetent to understand why s/he is being so punished, an area of the law that has always been riddled with confusion. The Supreme Court, in 

Propaganda and manipulation have long been employed to influence and shape individuals' thoughts and identities. In the advent of the digital era, these techniques have become more sophisticated and invasive, and are utilized to further various causes. This article investigates the extent to which international human rights law affords protection against manipulation techniques such as microtargeting and behavioral reading, which can negatively impact individuals' mental health and autonomy by threatening their right to construct their own identity. The right to freedom of thought in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Article 18), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Article 18), and the European Convention on Human Rights (Article 9) offers absolute protection to individuals' inner selves and covers the protection against manipulation on paper. However, in practice, the right has not received much attention and has not reached its full potential due to its abstract and ambiguous nature. This Article analyzes the preparatory works of these human rights law instruments, with a particular focus on the right to freedom of thought, to clarify its origins and the intention behind its creation. The Article contends that the historical origins of the right do not provide sufficient answers to the current issue and contribute to the ineffective application of the right against emerging manipulative practices. The Article also proposes potential ways to clarify and strengthen the legal framework related to the right to freedom of thought.

The objective of this scoping review was to examine teaching approaches used to teach interprofessional health professional learners how to break bad news collaboratively. When breaking bad news, health professionals must be equipped to deliver it skillfully and collaboratively; however, the literature shows that this skill receives little attention in program curricula. Consequently, health professionals can feel inadequately prepared to deliver bad news, which may lead to increased burnout, distress, and compassion fatigue. Studies that describe teaching approaches used to teach learners how to break bad news collaboratively were considered for inclusion. Studies must have included 2 or more undergraduate and/or postgraduate learners working toward a professional health or social care qualification/degree at a university or college. Studies including lay, complementary and alternative, or non-health/social care learners were excluded. Due to the primary language of the research team, only English articles were included. The JBI 3-step process was followed for developing the search. Databases searched included MEDLINE (Ovid), CINAHL (EBSCOhost), Embase, Education Resource Complete (EBSCOhost), and Social Work Abstracts (EBSCOhost). The initial search was conducted on February 11, 2021, and was updated on May 17, 2022. Title and abstract screening and data extraction were completed by 2 independent reviewers. Disagreements were resolved through discussion or with a third reviewer. Results are presented in tabular or diagrammatic format, together with a narrative summary. Thirteen studies were included in the scoping review, with a range of methodologies and designs (pre/post surveys, qualitative, feasibility, mixed methods, cross-sectional, quality improvement, and methodological triangulation). The majority of papers were from the United States (n=8; 61.5%). All but 1 study used simulation-enhanced interprofessional education as the preferred method to teach interprofessional cohorts of learners how to break bad news. The bulk of simulations were face-to-face (n=11; 84.6%). Three studies (23.1%) were reported as high fidelity, while the remainder did not disclose fidelity. All studies that used simulation to teach students how to break bad news utilized simulated participants/patients to portray patients and/or family in the simulations. The academic level of participants varied, with the majority noted as undergraduate (n=7; 53.8%); 3 studies (23.1%) indicated a mix of undergraduate and graduate participants, 2 (15.4%) were graduate only, and 1 (7.7%) was not disclosed. There was a range of health professional programs represented by participants, with medicine and nursing equally in the majority (n=10; 76.9%). Simulation-enhanced interprofessional education was the most reported teaching approach to teach interprofessional cohorts of students how to break bad news collaboratively. Inconsistencies were noted in the language used to describe bad news, use of breaking bad news and interprofessional competency frameworks, and integration of interprofessional education and simulation best practices. Further research should focus on other interprofessional approaches to teaching how to break bad news; how best to incorporate interprofessional competencies into interprofessional breaking bad news education; whether interprofessional education is enhancing collaborative breaking bad news; and whether what is learned about breaking bad news is being retained over the long-term and incorporated into practice. Future simulation-specific research should explore whether and how the Healthcare Simulation Standards of Best Practice are being implemented and whether simulation is resulting in student satisfaction and enhanced learning.

Chronic health conditions impact nearly 40% of children in the United States, necessitating parents/caregivers to entrust healthcare responsibilities to youth aging into adulthood. Understanding the parental entrustment process may lead to tailored transition support; however, the concept lacks conceptual clarity, limiting its research and practical applications. Rodgers' evolutionary concept analysis method was used to clarify the parental entrustment of healthcare responsibilities to youth with chronic health conditions. PubMed, CINAHL, and PsycINFO databases were searched without date restrictions, including full-text, English-language, primary source articles related to parent-child healthcare transition preparation. Following title, abstract, and full-text screenings, data were analyzed using a hybrid thematic approach to identify antecedents, attributes, and consequences. Forty-three studies from August 1996 to September 2023 were identified. Antecedents encompass social cues and readiness factors, while attributes involve a) responsibility transfer, support, and facilitation, b) a dynamic process, c) balancing trust and fear, d) navigating conflict, and e) parental letting go. Consequences entail shifts in parental and adolescent roles. Parental entrustment is an iterative process wherein parents guide their maturing child through responsibility transfer via facilitation, support, conflict navigation, and trust building. The clarified concept underscores the role of parents/caregivers in empowering youth to manage their health. Introducing a working definition and conceptual model contributes to understanding the processes families navigate in the larger landscape of healthcare transition. This clarification holds implications for clinicians and policymakers, offering insights to enhance support and guidance for families navigating healthcare transition.

To determine the psychological and social impacts of a gastrostomy in childhood on carers and families. A systematic search of OVID, Medline and Embase was undertaken using the subject headings and word variants for 'gastrostomy', 'children' and 'carers'. Studies included were those describing the impact of gastrostomies in children on family and carers, published in English. 564 articles were identified. After exclusion of duplicates, abstract and full text screening, 25 were included. Carer anxiety increases in the period leading up to, and for a short period following gastrostomy insertion. 3-6 months following gastrostomy insertion, anxiety reduced (reduced State-Trait Anxiety Inventory scores), carer quality of life improved (higher Quality of Life Scale scores), and carer satisfaction with the child's gastrostomy increased (improved Satisfaction Questionnaire with Gastrostomy Feeding scores). Reported changes in carer quality of life in the longer term following a child's gastrostomy insertion were mixed. The social and psychological burden on caregivers of a gastrostomy in childhood varies over time. There is evidence that paediatric gastrostomies have positive effects on carers' psychological and social well-being; however, aspects of carers' quality of life remain impaired. Carer education and support are vital to reduce the burden placed on carers.

Use of support and relief services for parents of children in need of care: Results of the FamBer observational study 

Health-related data collection tools, including digital ones, have become more prevalent across clinical studies in the last number of years. However, using digital data collection tools in low-income and middle-income countries presents unique challenges. In this review, we aim to provide an overview of the data collection tools currently being used in randomised controlled trials (RCTs) conducted in low-resource settings and evaluate the tools based on the characteristics outlined in the modified Mobile Survey Tool framework. These include functionality, reliability, usability, efficiency, maintainability, portability, effectiveness, cost-benefit, satisfaction, freedom from risk and context coverage. This evidence may provide a guide to selecting a suitable data collection tool for researchers planning to conduct research in low-income and middle-income countries for future studies. Searches will be conducted in four electronic databases: PubMed, CINAHL, Web of Science and EMBASE. For inclusion, studies must be a RCT, mention a health-related data collection tool and conducted in a low- and middle-income country. Only studies with available full-text and written in English will be included. The search was restricted to studies published between January 2005 and June 2023. This systematic review will use the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) tool. Two review authors will screen the titles and abstracts of search results independently for inclusion. In the initial screening process, the full-text articles will be retrieved if the abstract contains limited information about the study. Disagreements will be resolved through discussion. If the disagreement cannot be resolved, a third author (JO'D) will adjudicate. The study selection process will be outlined in a PRISMA flow-diagram. Data will be analysed using a narrative synthesis approach. The included studies and their outcomes will be presented in a table. Formal ethical approval is not required as primary data will not be collected in this study. The findings from this systematic review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal. CRD42023405738.

To address: What are the experiences of 2SLGBTQQIA+ parents using parenting supports and services to meet their children's early childhood development needs (<5 years of age)? Whittemore and Knafl's (2005) integrative review methodology. Electronic databases were searched from 2000 to October 14, 2022 for empirical studies or reviews addressing the research question. The title and abstract of 12,158 articles were screened for inclusion in the review by two independent researchers; 175 of these articles underwent full-text review. Studies selected were critically appraised using a Joanna Briggs Institute Critical Appraisal tool. Relevant key findings were extracted from each study and entered into N-VIVO-12. Thematic content analysis was employed and PRISMA guidelines were adhered to. A total of 18 articles (15 qualitative and three multi-method studies) met the inclusion criteria and were selected for the review. Seven themes were revealed from analysis of the studies: (1) 2SLGBTQQIA+ Status kept a secret; (2) Forced to come out; (3) Heteronormative messaging; (4) Feeling excluded; (5) Stigmatised; (6) Parents act as educators; and (7) Positive experiences. This integrative review provides nurses with insight into the experiences of 2SLGBTQQIA+ parents using health care services for their young child. This article highlights what changes nurses need to make to their practice to ensure appropriate, inclusive care for clients of diverse sexual and gender identities and their families. Health care providers, especially nurses, have an opportunity to improve the experiences of these families and positively impact their health and well-being. Additionally, there is a need for research with the 2SLGBTQQIA+ parent community and the use of rigorous methodological techniques, including clearly linking participants' gender and sexual identities with study findings, to improve our understanding of 2SLGBTQQIA+ parent experiences. Although there was no direct patient contribution to the work since it was an integrative review of the literature, indirectly patient contributions are incorporated from the original research results of studies incorporated into this review.

Theories of early development have emphasized the power of caregivers as active agents in infant socialization and learning. However, there is variability, across communities, in the tendency of caregivers to engage with their infants directly. This raises the possibility that infants and children in some communities spend more time engaged in solitary activities than in dyadic or triadic interactions. Here, we focus on one such community (indigenous Wichi living in Argentina's Chaco Forest) to test this possibility. We examine naturally occurring attentional activity involving the mother and child among the Wichi and among Eurodescendant Spanish-speaking families living in Argentina. We engaged 16 families-8 Wichi and 8 Eurodescendant-in an observational study of interactions between caregivers and their 1- to 2-year-olds. A mixed-analytic approach revealed no differences between communities in the proportion of time infants spent alone, or in mother-child interaction. What does differ, however, is how mothers engage in these interactions: Wichi mothers spend a greater proportion of their time observing their infants than do Eurodescendant mothers. Moreover, when infants in both groups are alone, they focus their 'solitary' activities differently: Wichi infants engaged primarily in observation alone, whereas Eurodescendant infants were more focused on the object. Finally, all mother-child pairs engaged in dyadic and triadic (object-infant-caregiver) patterns of attention, but the triadic patterns differed considerably between cultures: Among Wichi, mothers actively "watched" infants as they engaged with objects, whereas Eurodescendant mothers actively engaged with their infants in joint attentional episodes. This work illustrates how attention and socialization, key mechanisms of early development, are culturally organized. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SwsOCLXubKQ. RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Longitudinal, observational investigation of mother-infant interaction in two distinct Argentine cultural groups (Wichi and Eurodescendants) reveals both commonalities and clear community-based differences in interactions between mothers and their 1- to 2-year-olds. Wichi mother-infant dyads engaged primarily in visual observation of one another, but their Eurodescendant counterparts tended to engage in more verbal or physical interaction. We identify a new form of triadic interaction-lateral joint attention-among the Wichi dyads. This work underscores that attention and socialization, key mechanisms of early development, are culturally organized.

High rates of health inequalities and chronic non-communicable diseases exist amongst the prison population. This places people in and/or released from prison at heightened risk of multimorbidity, premature mortality, and reduced quality of life. Ensuring appropriate healthcare for people in prison to improve their health outcomes is an important aspect of social justice. This review examines the global literature on healthcare interventions to detect, monitor and manage chronic non-communicable diseases amongst the prison population and people recently released from prison. Systematic searches of EMBASE, MEDLINE, CINAHL, Web of Science, Scopus, and the Cochrane Library were conducted and supplemented by citation searching and review of the grey literature. The literature searches attempted to identify all articles describing any healthcare intervention for adults in prison, or released from prison in the past 1 year, to detect, monitor, or manage any chronic non-communicable illness. 19,061 articles were identified, of which 1058 articles were screened by abstract and 203 articles were reviewed by full text. Sixty-five studies were included in the review, involving 18,311 participants from multiple countries. Most studies were quasi-experimental and/or low to moderate in quality. Numerous healthcare interventions were described in the literature including chronic disease screening, telemedicine, health education, integrated care systems, implementing specialist equipment and staff roles to manage chronic diseases in prisons, and providing enhanced primary care contact and/or support from community health workers for people recently released from prison. These interventions were associated with improvement in various measures of clinical and cost effectiveness, although comparison between different care models was not possible due to high levels of clinical heterogeneity. It is currently unclear which interventions are most effective at monitoring and managing chronic non-communicable diseases in prison. More research is needed to determine the most effective interventions for improving chronic disease management in prisons and how these should be implemented to ensure optimal success. Future research should examine interventions for addressing multimorbidity within prisons, since most studies tested interventions for a singular non-communicable disease.

Optimal adherence is crucial for ensuring both therapeutic and preventative benefits of antiretroviral therapy (ART). Sub-optimal adherence is common in prisoners and little information is available about its predisposing circumstances in resource-limited settings. We explored lived experiences of inmates living with HIV (ILWH) and experiential accounts of service providers in South Ethiopia to identify barriers to and facilitators of HIV care use in the prison context. We conducted qualitative in-depth interviewing with eleven ILWH and eleven service providers. Audio recorded interview data were transcribed verbatim in Amharic language, translated into English and coded based on emerging concepts. We employed a descriptive phenomenological approach to abstract meaning attributed to the prisoners' lived experiences in relation to HIV care use and service providers' experiential account regarding care provision as presented to our consciousness. Several concepts emerged as barriers to HIV care use amongst ILWH in South Ethiopia including: limited access to standard care, insufficient health staff support, uncooperative security system, loss of patient privacy, a lack of status disclosure due to social stigma, and food supply insufficiency. In addition to a unique opportunity offered by an imprisonment for some ILWH to refrain from health damaging behaviours, the presence of social support in the prison system facilitated care use. This study identified important structural and social contexts that can both hinder and enhance HIV care use amongst ILWH in South Ethiopia. Given the disproportionate burden of HIV in prisoners and the potential of transmission to others during and after incarceration, development of contextually-responsive strategies is required to address the barriers and to also strengthen the enablers.

The intersection of race and older age compounds existing health disparities experienced by historically marginalised communities. Therefore, racialised older adults with cancer are more disadvantaged in their access to cancer clinical trials compared with age-matched counterparts. To determine what has already been published in this area, the rapid scoping review question are: what are the barriers, facilitators and potential solutions for enhancing access to cancer clinical trials among racialised older adults? We will use a rapid scoping review methodology in which we follow the six-step framework of Arksey and O'Malley, including a systematic search of the literature with abstract and full-text screening to be conducted by two independent reviewers, data abstraction by one reviewer and verification by a second reviewer using an Excel data abstraction sheet. Articles focusing on persons aged 18 and over who identify as a racialised person with cancer, that describe therapies/therapeutic interventions/prevention/outcomes related to barriers, facilitators and solutions to enhancing access to and equity in cancer clinical trials will be eligible for inclusion in this rapid scoping review. All data will be extracted from published literature. Hence, ethical approval and patient informed consent are not required. The findings of the scoping review will be submitted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal and presentation at international conferences.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Open Dialogue was developed in Finland in the 1980s by clinical psychologist, Jaakko Seikkula. It is a development of family therapy, recognises previous trauma and has proven to be very effective in situations of acute mental illness, and in particular psychosis. Trauma Informed Care is a practice based on the understanding of and responsiveness to the impact of trauma. When people have experienced trauma, they may have difficulties in their everyday life and experience negative physical health outcomes as well as the risk of developing mental ill health. Open Dialogue is aligned to mental health care which aims to be trauma-informed, person-centred and rights-based. Examples exist of the use of both approaches for service delivery with limited evaluation. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: To our knowledge, no formal evaluation has been made of the use of open dialogue as a Trauma Informed therapy approach to support individuals and their family networks. Although both approaches recognise the impact of trauma on individuals, no study has explored the effectiveness of this treatment combination for use by mental health nurses. This review is timely as it provides insights into contemporary services that are trauma informed and have used Open Dialogue to extend therapy work with individuals and their family/networks. This scoping review was able to determine whether recommendations for clinical practice and training in Open Dialogue with Trauma Informed Care approaches could be identified. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This review provided a broad overview on the current types of trauma-informed care services incorporating Open Dialogue approaches into their practice. The literature, though sparce, identifies that Trauma Informed Care recognises multiple origins for mental ill health. Open dialogue has an affinity with the common values of mental health nurses. As combined therapies, they are demonstrating usefulness in engaging families and people in their journey towards recovery. Rigid adherence to Open Dialogue focus and delivery as well as training practices could be revised to make them more open to what people and their families wish to discuss. The person with mental ill health and previous trauma should be able to direct the narrative. Trauma Informed Practice principles could be adapted to improve consumer satisfaction with Open Dialogue approaches. INTRODUCTION: A large proportion of people who access mental health services have a lived experienced of trauma and are more likely to have a history of complex trauma. Open Dialogue and Trauma Informed Care practices identify previous trauma as a factor related to later psychosis. This scoping review has identified similarities and contrasts in how an Open Dialogue and Trauma Informed Care approach have been combined to complement one another for clinical work with people presenting with psychosis and previous trauma. We aimed to answer the following research question in this scoping review: What is known of the combined use of Open Dialogue and Trauma Informed Care practice when working with consumers and their family networks? As such, the purpose of this paper was to explore the application to practice and identify if any training existed and been evaluated. This scoping review was based on the Arksey and O'Malley's framework. A comprehensive search was performed across five electronic databases. Grey literature was also searched through Psyche Info and Google Scholar for books, Dissertation and Theses, alongside hand searching of the reference of the studies. Articles searched was from January 2013 to January 2023. Five distinct themes were identified from the literature: (1) Linking open dialogue with trauma, (2) Response to treatment, (3) Empowerment and information sharing, (4) Interpretation by clinical services, (5) Staff training outcomes. Some tentative recommendations for practice recognised the individuals' unique story and perspective, suggested that trauma is an important concept to assess. Services practising as Trauma Informed Services that have incorporated an Open Dialogue approach have mixed experiences. The use of Open Dialogue may have some benefits for family work and exploring consumer narratives while building a network of support. However, consumers identified similar frustrations with service delivery as with the family therapy literature. For example, it was difficult to bring family members together and difficult to discuss previous traumatic events in front of family. People experiencing training in Open Dialogue reported it taking a slow pace and not what they were familiar with. Open Dialogue can facilitate engagement of consumers and their family networks and greater recognition of the peer workforce to promote collaboration in therapy is needed. Future research should also focus on evaluating the effectiveness of such services and comparing their outcomes across regions.

The objective of this systematic review is to synthesise the evidence on public policy interventions and their ability to reduce household food insecurity (HFI) in Canada. Four databases were searched up to October 2023. Only studies that reported on public policy interventions that might reduce HFI were included, regardless of whether that was the primary purpose of the study. Title and abstract screening, full-text screening, data extraction, risk of bias and certainty of the evidence assessments were conducted by two reviewers. Seventeen relevant studies covering three intervention categories were included: income supplementation, housing assistance programmes and food retailer subsidies. Income supplementation had a positive effect on reducing HFI with a moderate to high level of certainty. Housing assistance programmes and food retailer studies may have little to no effect on HFI; however, there is low certainty in the evidence that could change as evidence emerges. The evidence suggests that income supplementation likely reduces HFI for low-income Canadians. Many questions remain in terms of how to optimise this intervention and additional high-quality studies are still needed.

Biomedical databases create an educational platform that allows institutions to share innovations and research discoveries. Identifying literature in biomedical databases that inform the faculty development experiences of faculty underrepresented in medicine (URiM) can help institutions identify resources to promote career advancement for this group. The authors sought to determine biomedical database trends in publications related to faculty development experiences of URiM faculty over the last twenty years. An electronic search for literature published between January 2003 to Dec 2022 was conducted in the databases CINAHL, PubMed, Scopus, and PsycInfo using keywords underrepresented minority, faculty development, career development, professional development, academic medicine, and workforce in the title, abstract, or body of the manuscript. Growth rates were calculated for each database. The statistical significance difference in median numbers of publication per database was evaluated using Krusksal Wallis and Dunn's test post hoc. Search results found 1516 publications over the twenty-year period. Scopus published the most literature with 1,372 publications with a mean number of 68.6 per year (SD 83.47). Both Scopus and PubMed had increased growth rates at 41% and 25%, respectively. There were statistically significant differences in median publication numbers between Scopus, CINAHL, and PsycInfo (p < 0.001) but not PubMed (p 0.062). Trends in publications related to URiM faculty development have increased over the last twenty years, most noted in the Scopus and PubMed biomedical databases.

We provide comprehensive insights into the peer review process and guide potential reviewers through the steps of reviewing scientific manuscripts. We discuss essential aspects such as the reviewer's responsibility in responding to invitations and maintaining confidentiality throughout the process, the criteria for accepting or rejecting papers, and efficient review of resubmissions. We emphasize the importance of prioritizing the review responsibility within other commitments, communication using professional and courteous language, and adherence to deadlines. We also offer practical tips on evaluating the abstract, introduction, materials and methods, results, and discussion section and summarizing the critiques in the review report.

Tobacco and alcohol co-use are two major lifestyle modifiable risk factors. Understanding the determinants of both behaviors helps to develop interventions to prevent these exposures. However, previous studies have focused on predictors of individual tobacco or alcohol use. This study aims to explore the potential predictors of tobacco and alcohol co-use among Spanish university graduates from the "Seguimiento Universidad de Navarra" (SUN) cohort study. A total of 7175 participants who were co-users of tobacco and alcohol were selected for this cross-sectional analysis. Their mean age was 39.1 years (12.04 SD) and 57.3% were women. Univariate regression models were used to select the potential predictors of tobacco and alcohol co-use, and the areas under the ROC curves (AUC) were calculated. Multivariable logistic regression models were used to create a predictive model. Baseline potential predictors included sociodemographic factors, lifestyle habits, and perceived personality aspects. In the multivariable model, the main significant potential predictors of tobacco and alcohol co-use were driving under the influence of alcohol (odds ratio [OR] = 1.65 [1.43-1.90]), drinking 1-2 cups of coffee daily (OR = 1.50 [1.24-1.84]), drinking three or more cups of coffee daily (OR = 1.61 [1.35-1.91]), and doing more physical activity than recommended (OR = 1.18 [1.02-1.34]) when compared with the reference group. Conversely, those who were married (OR = 0.87 [0.75-0.99], ate at home 7 days a week (OR = 0.69 [0.60-0.80]), or had a high perceived level of competitiveness (OR = 0.83 [0.72-0.95]) had a lower risk of co-use (AUC 0.61 [confidence interval 95% 0.59-0.63]), compared to the reference group. These results could be used by healthcare professionals, especially nurses, to effectively assess patients at higher risk of tobacco and alcohol co-use. [Correction added on 16 February 2024, after first online publication: The abstract section has been revised to provide more clarity in this version.].

Globally, 1 in 10 babies are born preterm. Families with preterm born infants may suffer strains related to the presence of a preterm child. To date, most evidence focuses on the outcome of children born preterm and of their parents. Our objective was to investigate the evidence on the impact of having a preterm born sibling on cognitive function, mental health and quality of life of term-born siblings and critically appraise the evidence. We searched five electronic databases, Google Scholar and reference lists. Two reviewers independently conducted screening, data extraction and critical appraisal. We retrieved 9121 articles. After duplicates, titles, abstract and full text review, seven studies met the inclusion criteria. One study reported higher anxiety and depression scores on index cases in the term born comparison group, compared to the index cases in the preterm born sibling group. Another study reported more feelings of reduced parental attention, and more interpersonal problems in the preterm born sibling group, than the comparison group. Although two studies reported a difference in outcomes between index cases in preterm born sibling groups and comparison groups, the scarce evidence did not allow us to delineate an effect or lack of it.

Homelessness among families with children under 5 residing in temporary accommodation is a growing global concern, especially in high-income countries (HICs). Despite significant impacts on health and development, these 'invisible' children often fall through the gaps in policy and services. The study's primary objective is to map the content and delivery methods of culturally sensitive interventions for children under 5 experiencing homelessness in HICs. A scoping review guided by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews checklist. Databases include PubMed, Medline, SCOPUS, The Cochrane Library and Google Scholar were searched up to 24 March 2022. This scoping review includes studies that describe, measure or evaluate intervention strategies aimed at improving child health programmes, specifically those yielding positive outcomes in key areas like feeding, nutrition, care practices and parenting. Articles were selected and evaluated by two independent reviewers, with a dispute resolution system involving a third reviewer for contested selections. The methodological quality of the studies was assessed using various tools including the Risk of Bias (RoB) tool, Cochrane RoB V.2.0, the Risk of Bias Assessment Tool for Non-randomized Studies (RoBANS) and the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE), each selected according to the type of article. The database search yielded 951 results. After deduplication, abstract screening and full review, 13 articles met the inclusion criteria. Two predominant categories of intervention delivery methods were identified in this research: group-based interventions (educational sessions) and individual-based interventions (home visits). This review highlights effective interventions for promoting the health and well-being of children under 5 experiencing homelessness, including educational sessions and home visits. Research has supported the importance of home visiting to be instrumental in breaking down language, cultural and health literacy barriers.

With continued increase in global migration, older people population in most countries is culturally diverse. Despite lesser preference for nursing home placement, people with dementia from culturally diverse backgrounds with higher needs and acuity do access nursing homes, however, little is known about care provision. The aims of this review were to map and synthesise available literature on care provision amongst people with dementia from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds in nursing homes and identify literature gaps that could inform future research. A scoping review was conducted guided by the six-step scoping review methodology of Levac and colleagues. A literature search was conducted from August to September 2022 and updated in June 2023 using six databases: Medline, CINAHL, Embase, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, and Scopus. Screening of articles, data extraction, and quality appraisal was performed independently by two authors. Articles included were primary empirical studies that explored care provision to people with dementia from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds living in nursing homes. Critical appraisal was conducted using the Joanna Briggs Institute Critical Appraisal Tool. Data were analysed using thematic analysis. Results were presented in a table and narrative format. Of the 1149 articles identified, 25 were included. A majority of the articles were qualitative (n = 17) and conducted in Western countries such as those in Europe (n = 11), as well as Australia (n = 5) and the United States (n = 4). Data analysis led to the development of three themes: (1) maintaining a sense of home; (2) fostering communication and interaction; (3) barriers and facilitators to providing care. Most articles did not specify the model underpinning the approaches to care provision. Care provision for people with dementia from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds living in nursing homes entails an environment which enables them to live up to the standards of what "home" means to them, communicate their needs, and engage in meaningful interactions. Predominant barriers to care provision relate to language and the facility's resources and capacity to deliver culture-specific care. Methodological quality of the studies that explored care provision for people with dementia from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds in the nursing home context is mostly limited. To strengthen the evidence base, there is a need for more rigorous research that informs care provision approaches and development of an inclusive model of culturally appropriate care to people with dementia from culturally diverse backgrounds in the nursing home context. A scoping review synthesised evidence on care provision amongst people with dementia from CALD backgrounds in nursing homes.

Leveraging law enforcement drug seizure data to better respond to the overdose crisis requires an understanding of available evidence and knowledge gaps regarding relationships between drug seizures and overdose mortality. This scoping review summarized peer-reviewed literature on associations between law enforcement drug seizures and drug-related mortality in the United States (US) in the era of illicitly-manufactured fentanyl, comparing study data sources, measures, methodologies, settings, and findings. We identified 388 non-duplicate records from three online databases searched on May 23, 2023. After title/abstract and full-text screening by two independent reviewers, 14 studies met the criteria for inclusion. The included studies tested the association between a measure related to law enforcement drug seizures and an overdose mortality outcome in the US and were published in English, in peer-reviewed journals, during or after 2013. Four of 14 studies (29%) included data from the entire US, while the remaining studies focused on an individual state/city/county or a group of states/cities/counties. Synthetic opioid/fentanyl seizures represented the most frequently examined drug seizure category, and overdose deaths overall (involving any drugs) represented the most frequently examined outcome. Most studies used counts/rates of drug seizures, with fewer studies examining dosage/weight, drug combinations, the proportion of drug seizures involving a specific drug, or spatiotemporal distribution. The majority (86%) of studies reported at least one statistically significant positive association between a law enforcement drug seizure measure and an overdose mortality outcome, most consistently for fentanyl-related seizures. Results were relatively less consistent for seizures involving stimulants and other drugs. Studies in this review provided consistent evidence that fentanyl-related seizure measures are positively associated with overdose mortality outcomes, despite the limitations inherent in drug seizure data, even in the absence of available information regarding seizure weight or dosage.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a primary global health concern, and identifying the molecular pathways, genetic subtypes, and mutations associated with CRC is crucial for precision medicine. However, traditional measurement techniques such as gene sequencing are costly and time-consuming, while most deep learning methods proposed for this task lack interpretability. This study offers a new approach to enhance the state-of-the-art deep learning methods for molecular pathways and key mutation prediction by incorporating cell network information. We build cell graphs with nuclei as nodes and nuclei connections as edges of the network and leverage Social Network Analysis (SNA) measures to extract abstract, perceivable, and interpretable features that explicitly describe the cell network characteristics in an image. Our approach does not rely on precise nuclei segmentation or feature extraction, is computationally efficient, and is easily scalable. In this study, we utilize the TCGA-CRC-DX dataset, comprising 499 patients and 502 diagnostic slides from primary colorectal tumours, sourced from 36 distinct medical centres in the United States. By incorporating the SNA features alongside deep features in two multiple instance learning frameworks, we demonstrate improved performance for chromosomal instability (CIN), hypermutated tumour (HM), TP53 gene, BRAF gene, and Microsatellite instability (MSI) status prediction tasks (2.4%-4% and 7-8.8% improvement in AUROC and AUPRC on average). Additionally, our method achieves outstanding performance on MSI prediction in an external PAIP dataset (99% AUROC and 98% AUPRC), demonstrating its generalizability. Our findings highlight the discrimination power of SNA features and how they can be beneficial to deep learning models' performance and provide insights into the correlation of cell network profiles with molecular pathways and key mutations.

Children's sharing behavior is profoundly shaped by social norms within their society, and they can learn these norms by directly observing how most others share in their immediate environment. Here we systematically investigated the impact of majority influence on the sharing behavior of young Chinese children through three studies (N = 336, 168 girls). Four- and 6-year-olds were allowed to choose 10 favorite stickers and had an opportunity to engage in anonymous sharing. Before making the sharing decision, children were assigned to one of two conditions: watching a video in which three peers all shared 8 out of 10 stickers (i.e., the majority sharing condition) or making their decisions without watching the video (i.e., the control condition). Results showed that both the 4- and 6-year-old children shared more stickers in the majority sharing condition than in the control condition (Studies 1 & 2). Moreover, the influence of the majority had a stronger effect compared to the influence of a single role model. Children shared more stickers after observing three peers sharing, compared to watching one peer sharing three times (Study 2). Furthermore, children were less likely to copy the majority's non-sharing behavior when it came to giving away stickers without prosocial outcomes, which was particularly evident among 4-year-olds (Study 3). The results reveal that majority influence uniquely shapes children's sharing behavior and that children selectively follow the majority based on whether the behavior exhibits prosocial attributes. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/8qNNhf9754I?si=7YfpaFpcD_IjlXjJ RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Observing a majority of three peers' unanimous generous sharing promoted sharing behavior in both 4- and 6-year-olds. The influence of three peers on children's sharing was stronger than that of one peer sharing three times. Four-year-olds, but not 6-year-olds, did not copy the non-sharing behavior of the majority as it did not lead to prosocial outcomes.

Workplace suicide can have significant knock-on effects within an organisation, yet research has shown within the healthcare profession, not all staff receive suicide prevention training, and few employers take the time to reflect on the need to change workplace policies or practices following the death of a staff member to suicide. How staff suicide is communicated across an organisation and to family members is important. Effective crisis communication is critical for effective management for a timely and sensitive response to a staff suicide within an organisation. By doing so, workplaces can help to reduce the significant emotional trauma suicide can have on an employee, and support good mental health across its workforce. This study aimed to explore and understand the communication processes around staff suicide across a National Health Service (NHS) Trust and to provide recommendations based on these findings. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 29 participants, each lasting approximately 90 min. The Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research (COREQ) guidelines were followed. Thematic analysis was used to analyse the data, resulting in seven themes being identified based on communication. Findings indicated that the Trust had no clear communication strategy in place for tackling staff suicide. Each suicide was handled differently, training across staff roles was lacking and operational procedures were deemed insensitive. This paper aimed to provide insight into the communication strategies used in the aftermath of a staff suicide. These findings highlight the inconsistency of the communication, lack of clear policy and guidance and the negative impact this had on staff. Further research is needed across NHS Trusts nationwide to gain insight into the current communication strategies in place to develop a national approach to clear communication following the death of an NHS worker to suicide. 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Parenting experiences are a great challenge but also a meaningful achievement for mothers diagnosed with schizophrenia (MDWSs). Most previous studies focused on the parenting experiences of Chinese mothers diagnosed with depression rather than those diagnosed with schizophrenia, who usually experience psychiatric symptoms. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Unlike in Western society, Chinese society is characterised by a family-centred culture. This study insightfully explores MDWSs' parenting and family life experiences addressing their intrapersonal mindsets, interpersonal connections with family members across generations and extrapersonal roles such as traditional social expectations as a mother, wife and daughter-in-law. While Western studies have mainly focused on MDWSs' personal resilience, this study insightfully explored MDWSs' resilient dimensions including their personal, familial and cultural issues within the Chinese society. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This study develops a comprehensive and professional understanding of the parenting experiences and family interactions of MDWSs who struggle to achieve their motherly role and re-establish connections with intimate family members. The findings highlight the following important considerations when offering family-based nursing cares: (1) assess power relationships, familial dynamics and cultural influences between MDWSs and their family members; (2) extend family members' involvement, such as parents-in-law, while offering psychoeducation to MDWSs and their family members. ABSTRACT: Introduction In Chinese culture, raising the next generation is recognised as a crucial family matter involving intergenerational participation. Mothers diagnosed with schizophrenia (MDWSs) usually experience high stress due to psychiatric symptoms, different parenting values across generations and traditional expectations associated with motherly roles. MDWSs need urgent professional assistance. Aim To explore MDWSs' parenting experiences and family life in Chinese cultural contexts. Method In-depth interviews were conducted with 20 MDWSs. Data were analysed using interpretative phenomenological analyses. Results The superordinate theme was identified as 'You are not a qualified mother'. Three major themes were elicited: experiencing crises in parenting, family life and self-stability; striving to be a good mother and wife under humiliation; and developing wisdom and courage to move forward. Discussion A dehumanised attitude of family members in a paternalistic culture was found. While Western society focuses on personal resilience and family-based nursing care for nuclear families, Chinese society intensively focuses on MDWSs' relationship with nuclear family members as well as extended family members such as parents-in-law. Implications for Practice The results highlighted the significance of culturally sensitive nursing care for MDWSs and family-centred psychoeducation that clarifies familial dynamics and improves effective communication between MDWSs and their family members.

Child vaccinations are among the most effective public health interventions. However, wide gaps in child vaccination remain among different groups with uptake in most minorities or ethnic communities in Europe substantially lower compared to the general population. A systematic review was conducted to understand health system barriers and enablers to measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and human papilloma virus (HPV) child vaccination among disadvantaged, minority populations in middle- and high-income countries. We searched Medline, Cochrane, CINAHL, ProQuest and EMBASE for articles published from 2010 to 2021. Following title and abstract screening, full texts were assessed for relevance. Study quality was appraised using Critical Appraisal Skills Program checklists. Data extraction and analysis were performed. Health system barriers and enablers to vaccination were mapped to the World Health Organization health system building blocks. A total of 1658 search results were identified from five databases and 24 from reference lists. After removing duplicates, 1556 titles were screened and 496 were eligible. Eighty-six full texts were assessed for eligibility, 28 articles met all inclusion criteria. Factors that affected MMR and HPV vaccination among disadvantaged populations included service delivery (limited time, geographic distance, lack of culturally appropriate translated materials, difficulties navigating healthcare system), healthcare workforce (language and poor communication skills), financial costs and feelings of discrimination. Policymakers must consider health system barriers to vaccination faced by disadvantaged, minority populations while recognizing specific cultural contexts of each population. To ensure maximum policy impact, approaches to encourage vaccinations should be tailored to the unique population's needs. A one-size-fits-all approach is not effective.

Current requirements for ethical research in Canada, specifically the standard of active or signed parental consent, can leave Indigenous children and youth with inequitable access to research opportunities or health screening. Our objective was to examine the literature to identify culturally safe research consent processes that respect the rights of Indigenous children, the rights and responsibilities of parents or caregivers, and community protocols. We followed PRISMA guidelines and Arksey and O'Malley's approach for charting and synthesizing evidence. We searched MEDLINE, PsycINFO, ERIC, CINAHL, Google Scholar, Web of Science, Informit Indigenous Collection, Bibliography of Native North Americans, and Sociological Abstracts. We included peer-reviewed primary and theoretical research articles written in English from January 1, 2000, to March 31, 2022, examining Indigenous approaches for obtaining informed consent from parents, families, children, or youth. Eligible records were uploaded to Covidence for title and abstract screening. We appraised the findings using a Two-Eyed Seeing approach. These findings were inductively coded using NVivo 12 and analyzed thematically. We identified 2,984 records and 11 eligible studies were included after screening. Three key recommendations emerged: addressing tensions in the ethics of consent, embracing wise practices, and using relational approaches to consent. Tensions in consent concerned Research Ethics Board consent requirements that fall short of protecting Indigenous children and communities when culturally incongruent. Wise practices included allowing parents and children to consent together, land-based consenting, and involving communities in decision-making. Using relational approaches to consent embodied community engagement and relationship building while acknowledging consent for Indigenous children cannot be obtained in isolation from family and community. Very few studies discussed obtaining child consent in Indigenous communities. While Indigenous communities are not a monolith, the literature identified a need for community-driven, decolonized consent processes prioritizing Indigenous values and protocols. Further research is needed to examine nuances of Indigenized consent processes and determine how to operationalize them, enabling culturally appropriate, equitable access to research and services for all Indigenous children.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The leading reason for suicide attempts in Japan is health problems, among which depression is the most common, followed by physical illnesses. Patients with physical illness and suicide ideation are not rare among patients receiving home-based care. General home visiting nurses (GHVNs) without knowledge, skills or experience in psychiatric care are required to provide care for patients with physical illness who are at risk of suicide in Japan. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: More detailed understanding of GHVNs' experiences and perspectives on working with suicidal patients in home care. This study enriches our understanding of how suicide prevention strategies should be developed for GHVNs. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Focusing education on therapeutic communication skills and meanings with relationships with patients is required by GHVNs. Training for suicide risk assessment and guidelines appropriate to GHVNs' situation is crucial. Establishing a liaison service system with a multidisciplinary team, including psychiatric home-visiting nurses, is necessary for home healthcare to achieve continuity of care. ABSTRACT: Introduction In Japan, even a general home visiting nurse (GHVN) lacking psychiatric experience and training can provide home nursing care to patients at risk of suicide. Little attention is given to nursing care for suicide by GHVNs who care for patients with physical illness. However, these patients with suicidal ideation for home care are surprisingly common. Aim/Question We explored the experiences of GHVNs who cared for patients with suicidal ideation and focused on the nurses' perceptions and interactions. Method We conducted semi-structured interviews with 15 GHVNs. We discussed the nurses' experiences caring for patients with suicidal ideation, their perceptions during these interactions and their response. Results General home visiting nurses were perplexed upon learning of the patient's suicidal ideation. They interacted with such patients by 'avoiding the core of the matter' while focusing on maintaining a relationship with them. Discussion Not addressing the patient's suicidal thoughts will not only disable the suicide risk assessment but also lead to patient isolation. Suicide prevention care needs to consider the unique characteristics of home care. Implications for Practice General home visiting nurses require training in suicide risk assessment and communication skills. Establishing a liaison service, including psychiatric home visiting nurses, is necessary to achieve continuity of care.

It is estimated that more than 4% of the causes of inpatient deaths in 2017 were due to diarrheal diseases. The current study is aimed to provide pooled prevalence of microorganisms causing diarrhea among Sudanese as well as determine any socio-cultural risk factors associated. A systematic review of the literature was conducted and regulated in accordance to PRISMA. After abstract and full text screening Twenty-one research articles were recruited to the study. Among witch eighteen research articles determined prevalence of causative microorganisms of Diarrhea; eight research articles determining prevalence of causative microorganisms of Diarrhea were conducted in Khartoum State, five in Gezira State, two in White Nile State, one in Kordofan State while two studies were conducted in several States. Moreover, majority of studies were concerned of prevalence among children while two studies were toward general population as well as mothers of children. The pooled prevalence of viral diarrhea in less than five years old children was 22.90% [15.37, 30.43] among more than 14 thousands' participants, the pooled prevalence of parasitic diarrhea was 31.40% [19.53, 43.27] among participants from different age groups while the pooled prevalence of bacterial diarrhea was 36.20% [14.00, 58.40]. No associated risk factors were able to be synthesized from included studies.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Loneliness is common among young and middle-aged stroke survivors. It not only hinders the recovery of their neurological and physical functions but also increases the risk of stroke recurrence, disability, and even death. Improving the mental health of young and middle-aged stroke survivors is of utmost importance. However, previous research has not yet investigated the impact of interpersonal sensitivity and resilience on the relationship between stigma and feelings of loneliness. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study confirms that stigma has a positive impact on loneliness among young and middle-aged stroke survivors. Interpersonal sensitivity partially mediates the relationship between stigma and loneliness, and resilience plays a moderating role in the mediating mechanism. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses can formulate nursing interventions to reduce loneliness of young and middle-aged stroke survivors with the goals of improving stigma, reducing interpersonal sensitivity and cultivating resilience. ABSTRACT: Introduction Previous studies have not explored the impact of interpersonal sensitivity and resilience on the relationship between stigma and loneliness. However, improving the resilience of young and middle-aged stroke survivors and increasing their social participation is of great significance for reducing patients' loneliness of patients and promoting their physical and mental rehabilitation. Aims To investigate the influence of stigma, interpersonal sensitivity and resilience on loneliness among young and middle-aged stroke survivors. Methods A cross-sectional design was used to collect data. A total of 330 participants completed measures of stigma, resilience, interpersonal sensitivity and loneliness. The descriptive statistical approach, Pearson's correlation analysis and Hayes' PROCESS Macro Model 4 and 7 in regression analysis were used to analyse the available data. Results The results revealed that young and middle-aged stroke survivors' stigma, resilience, interpersonal sensitivity and loneliness were significantly correlated between every two variables, with coefficients ranging between -0.157 and 0.682. Interpersonal sensitivity played a partial mediating role in stigma and loneliness, accounting for 63.27% of the total effect; This process was moderated by resilience. Discussion Stigma positively predicts participants' loneliness. As a mediating mechanism with moderating, interpersonal sensitivity and resilience further explain how stigma affects loneliness. Implications for Practice Understanding this mechanism is of guiding significance to reduce loneliness of young and middle-aged stroke patients and promote their physical and mental rehabilitation.

Machine learning (ML) is a powerful asset to support physicians in decision-making procedures, providing timely answers. However, ML for health systems can suffer from security attacks and privacy violations. This paper investigates studies of security and privacy in ML for health. We examine attacks, defenses, and privacy-preserving strategies, discussing their challenges. We conducted the following research protocol: starting a manual search, defining the search string, removing duplicated papers, filtering papers by title and abstract, then their full texts, and analyzing their contributions, including strategies and challenges. Finally, we collected and discussed 40 papers on attacks, defense, and privacy. Our findings identified the most employed strategies for each domain. We found trends in attacks, including universal adversarial perturbation (UAPs), generative adversarial network (GAN)-based attacks, and DeepFakes to generate malicious examples. Trends in defense are adversarial training, GAN-based strategies, and out-of-distribution (OOD) to identify and mitigate adversarial examples (AE). We found privacy-preserving strategies such as federated learning (FL), differential privacy, and combinations of strategies to enhance the FL. Challenges in privacy comprehend the development of attacks that bypass fine-tuning, defenses to calibrate models to improve their robustness, and privacy methods to enhance the FL strategy. In conclusion, it is critical to explore security and privacy in ML for health, because it has grown risks and open vulnerabilities. Our study presents strategies and challenges to guide research to investigate issues about security and privacy in ML applied to health systems.

Integrative theorizing is needed to advance our understanding of the relationship between where a person lives and their mental health. To this end, we introduce a social identity model that provides an integrated explanation of the ways in which social-psychological processes mediate and moderate the links between neighborhood and mental health. In developing this model, we first review existing models that are derived primarily from a resource-availability perspective informed by research in social epidemiology, health geography, and urban sociology. Building on these, the social identity model implicates neighborhood identification in four key pathways between residents' local environment and their mental health. We review a wealth of recent research that supports this model and which speaks to its capacity to integrate and extend insights from established models. We also explore the implications of the social identity approach for policy and intervention. We need to understand the connection between where people live and their mental health better than we do. This article helps us do this by presenting an integrated model of the way that social and psychological factors affect the relationship between someone's neighborhood and their mental health. This model builds on insights from social epidemiology, health geography, and urban sociology. Its distinct and novel contribution is to point to the importance of four pathways through which neighborhood identification shapes residents' mental health. A large body of recent research supports this model and highlights its potential to integrate and expand upon existing theories. We also discuss how our model can inform policies and interventions that seek to improve mental health outcomes in communities.

The high rate of unemployment among individuals with vision impairment remains a pressing issue, even with the implementation of disability laws and coordinated effort to foster inclusive workplace. Employment integration challenges persist for people with vision impairment due to inaccessible job markets and workplaces. To create new knowledge from previous studies related to employment among people with vision impairment and to understand what has been explored and identify the gaps in employment integration. A comprehensive search of six databases was conducted utilizing both index terms and keywords. The title and abstract of identified studies were screened, followed by a full-text screening using pre-set criteria. Only available peer-reviewed studies with a focus on employment and vision impairment were included, irrespective of location and publication year. Of 2264 studies screened, only 43 studies were eligible for review and data extraction. Using thematic analysis, 8 key themes emerged: social support, disability rights and service systems, transition strategies and challenges, career, employment integration, employment environment, adaptive potential, and employment sustainability. These studies considered the perspectives of people living with vision impairment, rehabilitation practice, and employers. Identified gaps include transition strategies, workplace participation, the perception of colleagues, and work evolution. The primary focus of studies was on the individual factors that impact workplace integration; work environment impact was not explored in depth. The need to examine the readiness of the work environment is also importance because environmental factors can be modified according to the functional needs of people with vision impairment.

HIV partner notification services (PNS) are highly effective in identifying people living with HIV, but the complex risks and repercussions associated with HIV testing and disclosure must be examined. The benefits of assisting people to learn their HIV status and link with treatment or prevention based on their results must be considered alongside the risks of adverse events or social harms. The study team systematically searched the PubMed, EBSCO, and Web of Science electronic databases (2015-2021), as well as abstracts from the International AIDS Society Conference (2016-2020) and the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (2015-2020). Fifteen studies and 1 conference abstract met the inclusion criteria for this narrative review. Incidence of social harms across studies ranged from 0%-6.3%, with the higher range occurring among women with a previous history of intimate partner violence (IPV). The majority of the studies (69%) reported that less than or equal to 1% of participants experienced social harms as a result of PNS. Social harms included relationship dissolution, IPV, and loss of financial support. Evidence from a limited set of studies suggests that although social harms associated with HIV partner notification do occur, they are rare. Considering the rapid global scale-up of PNS, additional research and oversight are needed to provide countries with recommended minimum standards to support providers, clients, and their partners with safe partner notification.

Research has shown a protective association between social support and depression, depression among stroke patients, and health impacts of depression. Despite this, not much is known about the effect of social support on depression among stroke patients. This review aims to summarize the current research examining the association between social support and depression among stroke patients. A literature search was performed in PubMed to find original peer-reviewed journal articles from 2016 to 12 March 2023 that examined the association between social support and depression among stroke patients. The search terms were depression and "social support" and stroke, which lead to 172 articles. After abstract review, seven observational studies that studied the target association among stroke patients were selected. One additional study was found using PsycINFO as a complementary source with the same search strategy and criteria. Overall, a negative association was found between social support and depression among stroke patients in eight studies, with more social support leading to lower rates of depression post-stroke. The other study did not find a statistically significant association. Overall, the results of recent studies suggest that social support is negatively associated with depression among stroke patients. In most studies, this association was statistically significant. The findings suggest the importance of improving social support perceived by stroke patients in the prevention of depression after the occurrence of stroke.

The ability to assign meaning to perceptual stimuli forms the basis of human behavior and the ability to use language. The meanings of things have primarily been probed using behavioral production norms and corpus-derived statistical methods. However, it is not known to what extent the collection method and the language being probed influence the resulting semantic feature vectors. In this study, we compare behavioral with corpus-based norms, across Finnish and English, using an all-to-all approach. To complete the set of norms required for this study, we present a new set of Finnish behavioral production norms, containing both abstract and concrete concepts. We found that all the norms provide largely similar information about the relationships of concrete objects and allow item-level mapping across norms sets. This validates the use of the corpus-derived norms which are easier to obtain than behavioral norms, which are labor-intensive to collect, for studies that do not depend on subtle differences in meaning between close semantic neighbors.

The  To determine if the  The analysis measured physical abuse hospitalization rates for the period January 1, 1999 to December 31, 2019 and excluded any cases of confirmed Traumatic Head Injury-Child Maltreatment. Data were divided into pre-implementation period January, 1999 to December, 2008, and post-implementation period January, 2009 to December, 2019. Data were obtained from the Discharge Abstract Database and B.C. THI-CM Surveillance System to capture information on infant child abuse. Poisson regression and ANCOVA was applied to model the change in rates pre and post program implementation. Physical abuse hospitalization rates decreased by 30% post-implementation period (95% CI: -14%, 57%, p  =  0.1561). The decreasing linear trend in the post-implementation period was significantly different than the increasing linear trend in the pre-implementation period (F Nurses' role in engaging parents in conversations about 

Early growth, stress, and socioeconomic factors are associated with future risk of individual chronic diseases. It is uncertain whether they also affect the rate of multimorbidity accumulation later in life. This study aimed to explore whether early life factors are associated with the rate at which chronic diseases are accumulated across older age. In this national birth cohort study, we studied people born at Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland between Jan 1, 1934, and Dec 31, 1944, who attended child welfare clinics in the city, and were living in Finland in 1971. Individuals who had died or emigrated from Finland before 1987 were excluded, alongside participants without any registry data and who died before the end of the registry follow-up on Dec 31, 2017. Early anthropometry, growth, wartime parental separation, and socioeconomic factors were recorded from birth, child welfare clinic, or school health-care records, and Finnish National Archives. International Classification of Diseases codes of diagnoses for chronic diseases were obtained from the Care Register for Health Care starting from 1987 (when participants were aged 42-53 years) until 2017. Linear mixed models were used to study the association between early-life factors and the rate of change in the number of chronic diseases over 10-year periods. From Jan 1, 1934, to Dec 31, 2017, 11 689 people (6064 [51·9%] men and 5625 [48·1%] women) were included in the study. Individuals born to mothers younger than 25 years (β 0·09; 95% CI 0·06-0·12), mothers with a BMI of 25-30 kg/m Our findings suggest that the foundation for accumulating chronic diseases is established early in life. Early interventions might be needed for vulnerable populations, including war evacuee children and children with lower socioeconomic status. Finska Läkaresällskapet, Liv och Hälsa rf, the Finnish Pediatric Research Foundation, and Folkhälsan Research Center. For the Finnish and Swedish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Healthcare systems are currently facing challenges in enhancing access and improving the quality of healthcare services around the world, and one of the innovative strategies that have been used to address such challenges is the positive deviance (PD) approach. The approach assumes that identifying, examining, understanding and disseminating solutions to problems that are already available within the community and organisations including the healthcare system can help in bringing improvements at scale. However, to the best of the researcher's knowledge, there is no scoping review, that is, conducted to map and synthesise the available evidence on the use of the PD approach for healthcare system service improvements. Hence, this scoping review aims to map and synthesise resources on the methodologies and reported outcomes and identify gaps and potentials regarding the use of the PD approach in the healthcare system. Articles will be searched and retrieved in research databases such as PubMed, Embase and Scopus. Retrieved articles will be screened independently for inclusion through a title and, or abstract review. Then, articles that passed the title and abstract review will be screened by reading the full texts. A descriptive mapping and synthesis of the literature will be employed to present data using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis extension for Scoping Reviews checklist and data will be presented in text, figure and table formats. The results of this scoping review will be published in peer-reviewed reputable international journals. Furthermore, it will also be disseminated through conference presentations, and popular press to the wider community. However, formal ethical approval is not required as primary data will not be collected.

Any form of racism in healthcare is an unacceptable barrier to receiving equitable and quality care, further contributing to health disparities among populations. For these reasons, it is critical to have a better understanding on the amount of research and scientific advances of funded projects aimed at racism in healthcare. An examination of the distribution of R-series funded research by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) on racism in healthcare during a 5-year fiscal year (FY) period (2017-2022) was conducted by the study team. This cross-sectional study used publicly available data from the NIH RePORTER (Research Portfolio Online Reporting Tools: Expenditures and Results) for research project grants awarded on racism and healthcare during the FYs of 2017 to 2022. The number of R-series NIH funded projects on racism in healthcare were examined, including the abstract and public health relevance statement, number of publications, spending category, fiscal start and end dates, total amount of funding each year, funding agency/center(s), and type of funding opportunity announcements. Descriptive statistics were performed on the data by the research team. There were a total of 93 R-series grants funded during the FYs of 2017 to 2022. Most of the grants were R01s (77.4%); focused primarily on racism at the system-wide level (68.8%), and on patients (64.5%); the largest racial and ethnic minority group reported were African/American/Black (20.4%); and close to 40% did not report race or ethnicity. None of the grants focused in internalized racism, which is at the individual -level. From the FYs of 2017 to 2022, 0.07% of all NIH research funding was awarded to racism in healthcare. The findings of this study showed the need for continued funding and of the need of more research on racism in healthcare, that potentially can reduce health disparities and inequities.

Social determinants have been increasingly implicated in accelerating HIV vulnerability, particularly for disenfranchised communities. Among these determinants, neighborhood factors play an important role in undermining HIV prevention. However, there has been little research comprehensively examining the impact of neighborhood factors on HIV care continuum participation in the US. To address this, we conducted a systematic review (PROSPERO registration number CRD42022359787) to determine neighborhood factors most frequently associated with diminished HIV care continuum participation. Peer-reviewed studies were included if published between 2013 - 2022, centralized in the US, and analyzed a neighborhood factor with at least one aspect of the HIV care continuum. The review was guided by the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) protocol. Study quality was guided by LEGEND (Let Evidence Guide Every New Decision) evaluation guidelines. Systematic review analysis was conducted using Covidence software. There were 3,192 studies identified for initial screening. Forty-four were included for review after eliminating duplicates, title/abstract screening, and eligibility assessment. Social and economic disenfranchisement of neighborhoods negatively impacts HIV care continuum participation among persons living with HIV. In particular, five key neighborhood factors (socioeconomic status, segregation, social disorder, stigma, and care access) were associated with challenged HIV care continuum participation. Race moderated relationships between neighborhood quality and HIV care continuum participation. Structural interventions addressing neighborhood social and economic challenges may have favorable downstream effects for improving HIV care continuum participation.

The Mini Cambridge-Exeter Repetitive Thoughts Scale (Mini-CERTS) captures constructive and unconstructive aspects of repetitive thinking, but there is a need to revise and improve it given its novelty. For this reason, we present a validation and factor analysis of the Spanish version of the Mini-CERTS. Given that it is important to take cultural issues into account in instrument adaptation, we also assess its measurement invariance across Spanish (

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Safewards was developed for acute mental health units, and while could be effective in forensic mental health services, there are some gaps in the model for such services, where factors including offending behaviour and longer term care can have an influence. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The importance of acknowledging and addressing responses related to offending behaviour in forensic mental health settings, while also understanding the vulnerability of the consumer group and responsibilities to the maintenance of professional boundaries. Enhancing collaboration with consumers/families/carers/supporters is important in a forensic mental health setting, and an important element of Safewards Secure. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This study completes the development of Safewards Secure, designed to foster collaboration, address issues pertinent to forensic mental health settings to enhance implementation and acceptance of the model and reduce conflict and containment. INTRODUCTION: Safewards is a model developed for acute mental health settings designed to reduce conflict and containment; however, it requires adaptation to forensic mental health settings. To develop the Safewards Secure model, a model to assist forensic mental health services to reduce conflict and containment. A literature review was conducted to elicit possible modifiers and adjustments to the interventions. A Nominal Group Technique was then used to engage forensic mental health experts who had experience implementing Safewards (n = 12) to seek feedback about the suggestions and reach consensus on the Safewards Secure model and interventions. Data were thematically analysed. Experts reached consensus on all suggestions, however, did recommend minor additions and modifications. Two themes were also interpreted: Safewards Secure is just as much for staff as it is for consumers, and the proposed additions encourage more meaningful staff to consumer collaboration. This study identified key challenges experienced by nurses working in forensic mental health settings, however, these challenges were not seen as insurmountable. The Safewards Secure model offers prompts and suggestions to encourage reflection, collaboration and a humanistic approach to care in forensic mental health settings. Addressing reactions to offending behaviour and encouraging more collaboration might assist in ensuring a more person-centred approach to forensic mental health nursing care.

Resident research has been mandated by the Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education across all specialties. Southeast Michigan Center for Medical Education (SEMCME) has an annual Research Forum for resident competition, and we assessed the publication status of award-winning presentations. The SEMCME Research Forum's winning presentations from 1978 to 2018 were reviewed. The author's information and keywords from the abstract's title were used to search PubMed and Google Scholar databases for publications. Descriptive statistics were generally used to characterize the data. Of 147 winning projects, 62% (78/126) were oral and 48% (10/21) were poster presentations; 88 (60%) were published. Obstetrics and gynecology had the highest publication rate (71%), followed by surgical (61%) and medical specialties (48%). While 60% of the award-winning presentations at the SEMCME Research Forum were published, more work needs to be done to examine the barriers preventing the publication of the remaining projects.

Increasing social vulnerability, measured by the Social Vulnerability Index, has been associated with worse surgical outcomes. However, less is known about the impact of social vulnerability on patients who underwent colorectal surgery under enhanced recovery programs. We hypothesized that increasing social vulnerability is associated with worse outcomes before enhanced recovery implementation, but that after implementation, disparities in outcomes would be reduced. Retrospective cohort study using multivariable logistic regression to identify associations of social vulnerability and enhanced recovery with outcomes. Institutional American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database. Patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery (2010-2020). Enhanced recovery programs were implemented in 2015. Those adhering to 70% or more of enhanced recovery program components were defined as enhanced recovery and all others as nonenhanced recovery. Length of stay, complications, and readmissions. Of 1523 patients, 589 (38.7%) were in the enhanced recovery group, with 625 patients (41%) in the lowest third of the Social Vulnerability Index, 411 (27%) in the highest third. There were no differences in Social Vulnerability Index distribution by the enhanced recovery group. On multivariable modeling, social vulnerability was not associated with increased length of stay, complications, or readmissions in the enhanced recovery group. Black race was associated with increased length of stay in both the nonenhanced recovery (OR 1.2; 95% CI, 1.1-1.3) and enhanced recovery groups (OR 1.2; 95% CI, 1.1-1.4). Enhanced recovery adherence was associated with reductions in racial disparities in complications as the Black race was associated with increased odds of complications in the nonenhanced recovery group (OR 1.9; 95% CI, 1.2-3.0) but not in the enhanced recovery group (OR 0.8; 95% CI, 0.4-1.6). Details of potential factors affecting enhanced recovery program adherence were not assessed and are the subject of current work by this team. High social vulnerability was not associated with worse outcomes among both enhanced recovery and nonenhanced recovery colorectal patients. Enhanced recovery program adherence was associated with reductions in racial disparities in complication rates. However, disparities in length of stay remain, and work is needed to understand the underlying mechanisms driving these disparities. See Video Abstract . ANTECEDENTES:El aumento de la vulnerabilidad social medida por el índice de vulnerabilidad social se ha asociado con peores resultados quirúrgicos. Sin embargo, se sabe menos sobre el impacto de la vulnerabilidad social en los pacientes de cirugía colorrectal bajo programas de recuperación mejorados.OBJETIVO:Planteamos la hipótesis de que el aumento de la vulnerabilidad social se asocia con peores resultados antes de la implementación de la recuperación mejorada, pero después de la implementación, las disparidades en los resultados se reducirían.DISEÑO:Estudio de cohorte retrospectivo que utilizó regresión logística multivariable para identificar asociaciones de vulnerabilidad social y recuperación mejorada con los resultados.ESCENARIO:Base de datos institucional del Programa de Mejora Nacional de la Calidad de la Cirugía del American College of Surgeons.PACIENTES:Pacientes sometidos a cirugía colorrectal electiva (2010-2020). Programas de recuperación mejorada implementados en 2015. Aquellos que se adhieren a ≥70% de los componentes del programa de recuperación mejorada definidos como recuperación mejorada y todos los demás como recuperación no mejorada.MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:Duración de la estancia hospitalaria, complicaciones y reingresos.RESULTADOS:De 1.523 pacientes, 589 (38,7%) estaban en el grupo de recuperación mejorada, con 732 (40,3%) pacientes en el tercio más bajo del índice de vulnerabilidad social, 498 (27,4%) en el tercio más alto, y no hubo diferencias en la distribución del índice vulnerabilidad social por grupo de recuperación mejorada. En el modelo multivariable, la vulnerabilidad social no se asoció con una mayor duración de la estancia hospitalaria, complicaciones o reingresos en ninguno de los grupos de recuperación mejorada. La raza negra se asoció con una mayor duración de la estadía tanto en el grupo de recuperación no mejorada (OR1,2, IC95% 1,1-1,3) como en el grupo de recuperación mejorada (OR1,2, IC95% 1,1-1,4). La adherencia a la recuperación mejorada se asoció con reducciones en las disparidades raciales en las complicaciones, ya que la raza negra se asoció con mayores probabilidades de complicaciones en el grupo de recuperación no mejorada (OR1,9, IC95% 1,2-3,0), pero no en el grupo de recuperación mejorada (OR0,8, IC95% 0,4-1,6).LIMITACIONES:No se evaluaron los detalles de los factores potenciales que afectan la adherencia al programa de recuperación mejorada y son el tema del trabajo actual de este equipo.CONCLUSIÓN:La alta vulnerabilidad social no se asoció con peores resultados entre los pacientes colorrectales con recuperación mejorada y sin recuperación mejorada. Una mayor adherencia al programa de recuperación se asoció con reducciones en las disparidades raciales en las tasas de complicaciones. Sin embargo, persisten disparidades en la duración de la estadía y es necesario trabajar para comprender los mecanismos subyacentes que impulsan estas disparidades. (Traducción-Dr. Felipe Bellolio ).

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Workplace violence is common in healthcare. Workplace violence remains a complex and serious occupational hazard in healthcare. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Since there is no study examining detailed explanations of experiences and perspectives of workplace violence among psychiatric nurses, this study will act as a guide for psychiatric nurses. This study provides information about how psychiatric nurses evaluate the concept of workplace violence from their perspective, what it means to them and the effects of workplace violence. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Considering the effects of workplace violence, a preventive, systematic and holistic approach should be used in psychiatry and community mental health centres. Supportive interventions should be used to improve the health and safety of psychiatric nurses and patients. INTRODUCTION: Workplace violence is common in healthcare and remains a complex and serious occupational hazard. This research was conducted to assess the workplace violence experiences and perspectives of psychiatric nurses. This study was a qualitative study conducted using a grounded theory approach method. The study was conducted between November 2022 and January 2023. The purposeful sampling method was used, and 11 psychiatric nurses were interviewed. Data were collected with an information form and a semi-structured interview form. The data were analysed using content analysis, and themes were created. The ages of the psychiatric nurses ranged from 38 to 57 years. Themes and sub-themes related to the workplace violence experiences and perspectives of psychiatric nurses included the way of violence (rising tension, eruption of the volcano, unintentional violence and turning to ash) and empowerment (ash cloud and ring of fire). Psychiatric nurses stated that they were exposed to verbal and physical violence for many reasons, that this situation seriously affected their physical, mental and social health and that in addition to the devastating effects of violence, they became stronger by developing various skills to protect against violence. Supportive interventions should be used to improve the health and safety of psychiatric nurses and patients. Strategies can be developed to include psychiatric nurses in occupational health nursing courses.

Gender diversity in both emergency medicine and medical toxicology has grown over the last decade. However, disparities in promotion, awards, and speakership still exist. No studies have examined gender disparities in authorship in medical toxicology journals. Does the proportion of female first authors and female senior authors in medical toxicology publications increase over time? What factors predict female authorship in the first author or last author positions in two major medical toxicology journals? We performed a retrospective review of all non-abstract publications in two medical toxicology journals, Clinical Toxicology and Journal of Medical Toxicology, between 2011 and 2020. We collected author names, number of authors, publication type, and publication year. Author names were used to identify author gender using Gender-API integrative tool. Data on the percentages of female medical toxicology fellows and medical toxicologists was provided by the American Board of Emergency Medicine (ABEM). A total of 2212 publications were reviewed and 2171 (97.9%) were included in the dataset. Overall, 31.7% of first authors were identified as female and 67.0% were identified as male by the Gender-API tool. There were 46.8% male-male author dyads, 24.2% female-male author dyads, 12.1% male-female author dyads, and 5.7% female-female author dyads. Predictors of female first authorship included research and case report articles, and percentage of ABEM female toxicologists. Predictors of female senior authorship included number of authors and percentage of ABEM female toxicologists. The proportion of female authorship in both categories increased over the study period. The frequency of female authorship in the first author position has grown over the last decade and is associated with increasing female representation in medical toxicology and specific manuscript subtypes, specifically research manuscripts.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: One in five mothers and birthing parents are affected by postpartum depression (PPD), yet only a small proportion of those with PPD receive treatment. Given cost and accessibility barriers to treatment, brief therapies (e.g. 1 day) could help address PPD on a large scale, though understanding participants' unique experiences with this novel treatment will help guide its refinement and use. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper describes the experiences, perspectives and satisfaction of participants who attended a 1-day workshop for PPD. Participants appreciate being taught practical techniques and the receipt of social support from facilitators and other attendees in the group setting, while some recommended further 'booster sessions' to enhance effectiveness. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: One-day CBT-based workshops may be an effective, low-intensity treatment option that provides helpful skills and builds social networks for individuals with PPD. Additional post-workshop booster sessions may enhance participant satisfaction with this new treatment by providing a reinforcement of their learning and an opportunity to re-connect with other birthing parents. INTRODUCTION: Postpartum depression (PPD) affects up to one in five mothers and birthing parents. Understanding their perceptions of therapeutic interventions is key to their effectiveness and scalability. The aim of the study was to understand participants' experiences attending an in-person or online 1-day cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)-based workshop for PPD and compare their experiences participating in either modality. This descriptive qualitative study was embedded in two separate randomized controlled trials evaluating the effectiveness of 1-day CBT-based workshops for PPD delivered in-person or online. Responses were provided by 94 in-person and 95 online participants about their experiences. Content analysis was used to code and categorize the data. Participants appreciated learning skills to improve PPD symptoms and joining a community of individuals with shared experiences. Integrating practical coping techniques after the workshop was reported to be most useful, though some wanted additional post-workshop support. Online participants identified additional barriers to workshop engagement. Participants who attended either workshop found them to be valuable and effective. Participants valued psychoeducation, social connections and applying practical CBT techniques. One-day CBT-based workshops may be an accessible treatment option for individuals with PPD, providing new skills and social support, though some prefer to receive additional post-workshop support.

Despite the issuance of standardized garbage classification signage, the rate of garbage classification in China remains low. We conducted a pair of laboratory experiments to explore the cognitive processing differences between abstract (including recyclables, hazardous garbage, and food signs) and concrete (including paper, plastic, glass, metal, textiles, batteries, household chemicals, tubes, and food signs) classification signs. We tested a nudging strategy to enhance garbage classification behavior. In Experiment 1, we divided garbage classification signs into two conditions: an abstract condition (comprising abstract signs) and a concrete condition (comprising concrete signs). The Go/No Go task was used to simulate garbage classification behavior. Participants were instructed to press a key when the garbage stimulus matched the classification signs (Go condition) and to refrain from pressing the key when there was a mismatch (No Go condition). The results showed that responses under the concrete condition were expedited compared to those under the abstract condition. This suggests that concrete signage requires less cognitive exertion, thereby enhancing the efficiency of waste classification. In Experiment 2, we optimized the existing bin signage, which predominantly featured abstract signs (traditional condition), and transformed it into a bin signage that emphasized concrete classification signs. These concrete signs were strategically positioned on the upper part of the bins to draw attention (nudging condition). The results suggested that the nudging condition required fewer cognitive resources than the traditional condition, which in turn increased the efficiency of processing garbage classification. This study not only validates the effects of concreteness in garbage classification but also provides effective nudge strategies to complement existing garbage classification management policy tools in a realistic Chinese context.

This graphic abstract combines pedigree, dysmorphology features, radiographs, and the PRKG2 protein domain, specifically the CNB-A regulatory domain, which harbors a mutation resulting in premature protein termination.

Disadvantaged socioeconomic position (SEP) is an important predictor of poor health in children with chronic kidney disease (CKD). The time course over which SEP influences the health of children with CKD and their carers is unknown. This prospective longitudinal study included 377 children, aged 6-18 years with CKD (stages I-V, dialysis, and transplant), and their primary carers. Mixed effects ordinal regression was performed to assess the association between SEP and carer-rated child health and carer self-rated health over a 4-year follow-up. Adjusted for CKD stage, higher family household income (adjusted odds ratio (OR) (95% CI) 3.3, 1.8-6.0), employed status of primary carers (1.7, 0.9-3.0), higher carer-perceived financial status (2.6, 1.4-4.8), and carer home ownership (2.2, 1.2-4.0) were associated with better carer-rated child health. Household income also had a differential effect on the carer's self-rated health over time (p = 0.005). The predicted probabilities for carers' overall health being 'very good' among lower income groups at 0, 2, and 4 years were 0.43 (0.28-0.60), 0.34 (0.20-0.51), and 0.25 (0.12-0.44), respectively, and 0.81 (0.69-0.88), 0.84 (0.74-0.91), and 0.88 (0.76-0.94) for carers within the higher income group. Carers and their children with CKD in higher SEP report better overall child and carer health compared with those in lower SEP. Carers of children with CKD in low-income households had poorer self-rated health compared with carers in higher-income households at baseline, and this worsened over time. These cumulative effects may contribute to health inequities between higher and lower SEP groups over time. Graphical abstract A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Sexualized Violence Toward Children and Adolescents: The Visibility and Implementation of Safeguarding Concepts in Sports, Music, and Church 

Loneliness is a significant public health concern due to its detrimental impact on health and wellbeing. Despite people with disability reporting higher levels of loneliness than the general population, there has been little research into how this is affecting their health and wellbeing. In light of this, the aim of our study was to scope both the existing evidence about the health and wellbeing outcomes associated with loneliness for people with disability, as well as the conceptual frameworks and measures utilised in this field of research. To conduct this scoping review, we followed the methodology outlined by JBI and searched MEDLINE, Scopus, Informit, Embase, and Web of Science for peer-reviewed, English-language articles published between 1 January 2000 and 8 February 2023. Two independent reviewers completed screening, full-text review and data extraction, with consensus sought at each stage. Data were analysed using content analysis and presented both numerically and narratively. Out of the initial 1602 publications identified in the scoping review, only nine were included after duplicate removal, title and abstract screening, and full-text review. This limited number of studies, with the earliest study one published in 2015, represents a key finding. Eight of the nine studies were quantitative, and all were conducted in high income countries. Most of these studies utilised a version of the University of Los Angles Loneliness Scale to measure loneliness and addressed specific impairment groups. Notably, most of the studies identified associations between loneliness and health and wellbeing outcomes for people with disability. This scoping review highlights the current scarcity of studies examining the effect that loneliness has on the health and wellbeing outcomes of people with disability. As most of the reviewed studies relied on loneliness measures designed for individuals without disability, they potentially overlook the unique life experiences of people with disability. Given that loneliness is an international public health concern, it is imperative that people with disability are not left behind or overlooked in efforts to address the impact of loneliness on health and wellbeing.

To systematically review and synthesize primary research on experiences and needs of adult informal caregivers of adults at risk of suicide. Systematic review with a data-based convergent synthesis. MEDLINE, PsychINFO and CINAHL were searched in April 2022 and February 2023. English language research focusing on experiences of adult carers of adults was included. Articles were screened by title (n = 9077) and abstract (n = 132) with additional articles (n = 6) obtained via citation and hand searching. Thirty-one included studies were quality assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool and study data were systematically extracted prior to thematic synthesis. Five interconnected themes resulted: transitions; living with fear and uncertainty; changing relationships; interface with healthcare professionals and services; what carers need and want. Caring impacts mental, physical and social wellbeing. Relationships are affected in ways which might not be evident when caring for a minor. Repeated suicidal behaviour is particularly challenging with ongoing hypervigilance contributing to burden, burnout and interpersonal strain. Poor carer support exacerbates negative effects; carers need to feel informed, educated, involved and holistically supported. Timely support for carers is essential. Interventions should address emotional responses, relational changes and effective care recipient support. Longitudinal research is required to understand effects of ongoing caring where there are multiple suicide attempts. Nurses can provide carers with early support and information and longer term psychosocial interventions. If carers are adequately equipped and supported patient safety and wellbeing will be improved. Findings of this systematic review include relational changes due to carer hypervigilance reducing autonomy and living with the possibility of suicide. Clinician awareness of the potential for relational shifts will help them prepare and support carers. There was no patient or public contribution.

Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a highly prevalent public health challenge and human rights violation. Sociological theories address social structures to understand prevalence and dynamics of IPV against women. This systematic review aims (1) to identify, describe, categorize, and synthesize sociological theories that account for predictors of IPV against women, and (2) to compare and contrast sociological theories of predictors of IPV against women. Following a structured search of nine electronic databases, members of the review team screened title/abstract and full texts against inclusion and exclusion criteria, to identify studies that engaged with theory/ies of predictors of IPV. Review team members extracted data according to a data extraction template developed for the review. Results are presented using a narrative synthesis approach. Following review of 108 included articles, included articles were grouped into sub-theories. The sub-theories provide differing, yet overlapping, accounts of predictors of male perpetration of IPV and women's experience of IPV. Sociological theories primarily engage with exo- and macro-system levels of the social-ecological framework, yet some also address structural influences on individual behaviors. This systematic review fills a gap in theoretical syntheses of sociological theories of predictors of male-perpetrated IPV against women and also provides critical analysis of how these theories overlap and intersect. While sociological theories may not be able to fully explain all aspects of dynamics of male-perpetrated IPV against women, this overview indicates that there are several compelling components of sociological theory that hold explanatory power for comprehending how, where, and why IPV occurs.

Postnatal care (PNC) has the potential to prevent a substantial burden of maternal and newborn morbidity and mortality. This scoping review aimed to identify and synthesise themes related to facilitators and barriers of implementation of guidelines on routine PNC for women (postpartum care) in all settings. This is a scoping review guided by the standard principles of Arksey & O'Malley's framework. We used the critical interpretive synthesis method to synthesise the whole body of evidence. We searched four databases (Medline, Embase, Global Health, CINAHL Plus) using a combination of search terms comprising four key concepts: postnatal care, routine care, guidelines and implementation. No restrictions on country or language of publication were applied. We excluded studies not presenting findings about PNC for women. We thematically charted the themes of studies included based on title and abstract screening. All studies included after full text screening were described and their results synthesised using the socio-ecological model framework. We did not conduct a risk of bias analysis or quality assessment of included studies. We identified a total of 8692 unique records and included 43 studies which identified facilitators and barriers to implementing routine guidelines in provision of PNC to women. Three quarters of studies pertained to PNC provision in high-income countries. Specific facilitators and barriers were identified and thematically presented based on whether they affect the provision of PNC or the intersection between provision of PNC and its use by women and families. We applied a critical global health lens to synthesise three constructs in the literature: finding a balance between standardisation and individualisation of PNC, the fragmented PNC provision landscape complicating the experiences of women with intersecting vulnerabilities, and the heavy reliance on the short postpartum period as an opportunity to educate and retain women and newborns in the health system. This interpretive synthesis of evidence shows that the fragmented and narrow nature of PNC provision presents specific challenges to developing, adapting and implementing routine PNC guidelines. This results in a lack of linkages to social support and services, fails to address intersecting vulnerabilities and inequities among women, and negatively influences care seeking. There is a lack of evidence on how processes of individualising PNC provision can be applied in practice to support health workers in providing woman-centered PNC in various global settings. https://www.protocols.io/private/C99DA688881F11EBB4690A58A9FEAC02.

Two classes of medications are used to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD); donepezil, galantamine, and rivastigmine are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, and memantine is a non-competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. Although these are typically taken orally, there are transdermal therapeutic systems (TTSs) commercially available for rivastigmine and donepezil. The transdermal route has been preferable for guardians/caregivers due to ease of use, reduced side effects, and improved adherence to therapy. The study aimed to obtain knowledge of the properties of these drugs and to search for patents relating to the TTS for AD using the Espacenet platform. The search terms were "rivastigmine AND transdermal AND skin delivery AND Alzheimer's", changing the drugs "memantine", "donepezil", and "galantamine", between January 2015 and January 2022. Title and abstract were used to choose patents. TTSs present some limit factors in terms of absorption due to skin physiology and the size of the molecules with established limits of percutaneous penetration (molecular mass of 500 g/mol and log P of 5). We found 1, 4, 4, and 2 patents for galantamine, rivastigmine, donepezil, and memantine, respectively. Galantamine TTS seems to be more challenging due to the molecular mass of 287.35 g/mol and logP of 1.8. The permeator of absorption is necessary. Memantine, rivastigmine, and donepezil present logP of 3.28, 2.3, and 4.27 and molecular weights of 179.30, 250.34, and 415.96 g/mol, respectively. TTSs are primarily effective for delivering small molecules. The use of absorption enhancers and irritation mitigators can be necessary to enhance the performance. The development of these technologies is essential for the convenience of patients and caregivers.

Public health surveillance is crucial in monitoring the progress of maternal, newborn, and children under-five health outcomes (MNCH). Consequently, mapping the existing surveillance system from countries with different income and development levels is needed to learn and compare the effectiveness of surveillance. However, the current COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the health system, including the healthcare services for pregnant women, neonates, infants, and children under five, as well as the recording, reporting, and surveillance system. The need to adapt to the new normal during the pandemic has stimulated innovation while incorporating new COVID-19-related indicators into the existing public health system. Therefore, this review aims to describe the existing implementation and the COVID-19 pandemic's influence on the MNCH surveillance system. We will search published literature (from MEDLINE, Embase, and Portal Garuda), manually search from all reference lists of included studies, and conduct a targeted search of relevant gray literature. This review will include studies of surveillance systems or describe COVID-19 surveillance or routine reports involving MNCH (morbidity and mortality). The studies included will be in English or Indonesian language, observational study designs, and published or documented from 2010 to 2023. Two investigators will independently screen the title and abstract, including each full article to determine the eligibility of studies. The data will be assessed using a narrative approach. Data will be reported in simple descriptive tables. Our findings are expected to map the existing implementation of MNCH surveillance systems before and during the pandemic, including the influence of the COVID-19 pandemic on MNCH surveillance across countries with different income levels. This may contribute to existing knowledge on the MNCH health surveillance system that could be integrated into the surveillance of emerging diseases, such as COVID-19. The protocol has been registered on the Open Science Framework ( https://osf.io/bc6t4 ).

Childhood rejection of fruits and vegetables (F/V) has been associated with an immature food categorization system, characterized by difficulties in accurately categorizing and making inductions about foods. This may result in variations in the kind of category-based induction children use, such as relying on the color of a fruit/vegetable. Research indicates that children who reject food frequently tend to prioritize perceptual features like color and shape over abstract features, such as the type of food (e.g., tomato) when making food-related inductions. The way children categorize food can also impact what they remember about foods. Food rejection may therefore be related to better memory for perceptual features and diminished memory for abstract features. To explore this further, a pre-registered study was conducted to examine how category-based induction and memory relate to each other, and to children's food rejection. 107 children aged 4-6 years old performed a category-based induction and memory task related to F/V, based on color and shape (perceptual features), and type of food (abstract feature). A vegetable photo task measured vegetable acceptance, and parents completed the Child Food Rejection Scale (CFRS). Children generally used color-based induction and displayed better memory for F/V color. Performance on the two tasks was related: higher type-based induction for F/V was linked to better memory for the type of F/V. However, there were no associations found with food rejection. Which category young children use for inductive reasoning about food, is related to what they remember best about food. Nevertheless, our study did not establish a relationship between an immature food categorization system and food rejection. Other factors, such as food familiarity, might play a stronger role in children's food acceptance.

The aim of this review is to map current evidence describing the information needs of stroke survivors and family members regarding cognition. Managing cognitive changes is the most frequently reported unmet need among stroke survivors; hence, there is an urgent need to improve support for post-stroke cognitive impairment. While there is evidence that psychoeducation may help stroke survivors and their family members develop awareness about cognitive impairment and self-management strategies, it is unclear what information stroke survivors and their family members want to receive and how their needs change over time. This review will consider peer-reviewed articles describing information needs relating to the following cognitive domains: memory, language, attention, executive function, praxis, and number processing. Stroke survivors and/or their family members must comprise at least 50% of the study population and must be aged at least 18 years. Quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods studies will be included. The review will be conducted in line with the JBI methodology for scoping reviews. A full literature search will be conducted in MEDLINE (PubMed), PsycINFO (Ovid), Embase, CINAHL (EBSCOhost), and Scopus using a search strategy developed in consultation with an expert university librarian. Articles will be screened by title, abstract, and full text; then, data will be extracted by 2 independent reviewers. The reference lists of included articles will be hand-searched for additional material. Data analysis and reporting will involve qualitative (textual narrative synthesis) and quantitative (descriptive statistics) methods.

Patients with chronic pain face significant barriers in finding clinicians to manage long-term opioid therapy (LTOT). For patients on LTOT, it is increasingly common to have them sign opioid treatment agreements (OTAs). OTAs enumerate the risks of opioids, as informed consent documents would, but also the requirements that patients must meet to receive LTOT. While there has been an ongoing scholarly discussion about the practical and ethical implications of OTA use in the abstract, little is known about how clinicians use them and if OTAs themselves modify clinician prescribing practices. To determine how clinicians use OTAs and the potential impacts of OTAs on opioid prescribing. We conducted qualitative analysis of four focus groups of clinicians from a large Midwestern academic medical center. Groups were organized according to self-identified prescribing patterns: two groups for clinicians who identified as prescribers of LTOT, and two who did not. 17 clinicians from General Internal Medicine, Family Medicine, and Palliative Care were recruited using purposive, convenience sampling. Discussions were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed for themes using reflexive thematic analysis by a multidisciplinary team. Our analysis identified three main themes: (1) OTAs did not influence clinicians' decisions whether to use LTOT generally but did shape clinical decision-making for individual patients; (2) clinicians feel OTAs intensify the power they have over patients, though this was not uniformly judged as harmful; (3) there is a potential misalignment between the intended purposes of OTAs and their implementation. This study reveals a complicated relationship between OTAs and access to pain management. While OTAs seem not to impact the clinicians' decisions about whether to use LTOT generally, they do sometimes influence prescribing decisions for individual patients. Clinicians shared complex views about OTAs' purposes, which shows the need for more clarity about how OTAs could be used to promote shared decision-making, joint accountability, informed consent, and patient education.

Multiple studies have highlighted the inequities minority and Indigenous children face when accessing health care. Health and wellbeing are positively impacted when Indigenous children are educated and receive care in their maternal language. However, less is known about the association between minority or Indigenous language use and child development risks and outcomes. In this study, we provide global estimates of development risks and assess the associations between minority or Indigenous language status and early child development using the ten-item Early Child Development Index (ECDI), a tool widely used for global population assessments in children aged 3-4 years. We did a secondary analysis of cross-sectional data from 65 UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) containing the ECDI from 2009-19 (waves 4-6). We included individual-level data for children aged 2-4 years (23-60 months) from datasets with ECDI modules, for surveys that captured the language of the respondent, interview, or head of household. The Expanded Graded Intergenerational Disruption Scale was used to classify household languages as dominant versus minority or Indigenous at the country level. Our primary outcome was on-track overall development, defined per UNICEF's guidelines as development being on track for at least three of the four ECDI domains (literacy-numeracy, learning, physical, and socioemotional). We performed logistic regression of pooled, weighted ECDI scores, aggregated by language status and adjusting for the covariables of child sex, child nutritional status (stunting), household wealth, maternal education, developmental support by an adult caregiver, and country-level early child education proportion. Regression analyses were done for all children aged 3-4 years with ECDI results, and separately for children with functional disabilities and ECDI results. 65 MICS datasets were included. 186 393 children aged 3-4 years had ECDI and language data, corresponding to an estimated represented population of 34 714 992 individuals. Estimated prevalence of on-track overall development as measured by ECDI scores was 65·7% (95% CI 64·2-67·2) for children from a minority or Indigenous language-speaking household, and 76·6% (75·7-77·4) for those from a dominant language-speaking household. After adjustment, dominant language status was associated with increased odds of on-track overall development (adjusted OR 1·54, 95% CI 1·40-1·71), which appeared to be largely driven by significantly increased odds of on-track development in the literacy-numeracy and socioemotional domains. For the represented population aged 2-4 years (n=11 465 601), the estimated prevalence of family-reported functional disability was 3·6% (95% CI 3·0-4·4). For the represented population aged 3-4 years with a functional disability (n=292 691), language status was not associated with on-track overall development (adjusted OR 1·02, 95% CI 0·43-2·45). In a global dataset, children speaking a minority or Indigenous language were less likely to have on-track ECDI scores than those speaking a dominant language. Given the strong positive benefits of speaking an Indigenous language on the health and development of Indigenous children, this disparity is likely to reflect the sociolinguistic marginalisation faced by speakers of minority or Indigenous languages as well as differences in the performance of ECDI in these languages. Global efforts should consider performance of measures and monitor developmental data disaggregated by language status to stimulate efforts to address this disparity. None. For the Spanish, Kaqchikel and K'iche' translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Despite increasing attention to improving equity, diversity, and inclusion in academic medicine, a theoretically informed perspective to advancing equity is often missing. Intersectionality is a theoretical framework that refers to the study of the dynamic nature of social categories with which an individual identifies and their unique localization within power structures. Intersectionality can be a useful lens to understand and address inequity, however, there is limited literature on intersectionality in the context of medical education. Thus, we explored how intersectionality has been conceptualized and applied in medical education. We employed a meta-narrative review, analyzing existing literature on intersectionality theory and frameworks in medical education. Three electronic databases were searched using key terms yielding 32 articles. After, title, abstract and full-text screening 14articles were included. Analysis of articles sought a meaningful synthesis on application of intersectionality theory to medical education. Existing literature on intersectionality discussesthe role of identity categorization and the relationship between identity, power, and social change. There are contrasting narratives on the practical application of intersectionality to medical education, producing tensions between how intersectionality is understood as theory and how it is translated in practice. A paucity in literature on intersectionality in medical education suggests that there is a risk intersectionality may be understood in a superficial manner and considered a synonym for diversity. Drawing explicit attention to its core tenets of reflexivity, transformational identity, and analysis of power is important to maintain fidelity to how intersectionality is understood in broader critical social science literature.

Spinal orthosis is a common conservative treatment for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), and a large body of compelling evidence from systemic review studies strongly supports the use of spinal orthosis treatment in patients with this condition. To further improve our understanding of the available data, the aim of this study is to develop and propose a protocol for a scoping review of systematic reviews of studies that investigated the effectiveness of orthotic treatment in patients with AIS. Systematic synthesis and understanding of the data will improve the efficacy of spinal orthosis treatment in this patient population. Using the scoping review methodological framework proposed by Arksey and O'Malley in 2005, we developed and herewith propose a scoping review protocol to evaluate systematic reviews of studies that investigated the effectiveness of orthotic treatment in AIS. Our proposed scoping review proposal is briefly described, as follows. A search of seven online databases will be conducted to identify systematic reviews published in English language from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2023, and grey literature and reference lists of included articles will also be searched. A two-stage screening process consisting of a title and abstract screening and a full-text review will be used to determine articles' eligibility. All eligible articles will be extracted, charted and evaluated using Assessing the MeaSurement Tool to Assess systematic Reviews Version 2 (AMSTAR-2) critical appraisal tool. The charted data will be quantitatively analysed and summarised, and qualitatively analysed using narrative synthesis. No primary data will be collected; therefore, ethics approval is not required. Findings will be disseminated through national and international conferences and publication in a peer-reviewed journal.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Nurses' observation of patients in seclusion is essential to ensure patient safety. Patient observation in seclusion assists nurses in adhering to the requirements of mental health legislation and hospital policy. Direct observation and video monitoring are widely used in observing patients in seclusion. Coercive practices may cause distress to patient-staff relations. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We add detailed information on specific observation methods in seclusion and compare them from the perspective of patients. Nurses communicating with patients ensures relational contact and that quality care is provided to patients even in the most distressed phase of their illness. Providing prior information to patients on observation methods in seclusion and the need for engaging patients in meaningful activities, while in seclusion are emphasized. Observation via camera and nurses' presence near the seclusion room made patients feel safe and gave a sense of being cared for in seclusion. Pixellating the video camera would give a sense of privacy and dignity. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The overarching goal is to prevent seclusion. However, when seclusion is used as a last resort to manage risk to others, it should be done in ways that recognize the human rights of the patient, in ways that are least harmful, and in ways that recognize and cater to patients' unique needs. A consistent approach to relational contact and communication is essential. A care plan must include patient's preferred approach for interacting while in seclusion to support individualized care provision. Viewing panels (small window on the seclusion door) are important in establishing two-way communication with the patient. Educating nurses to utilize them correctly helps stimulate relational contact and communication during seclusion to benefit patients. Engaging patients in meaningful activities when in seclusion is essential to keep them connected to the outside world. Depending on the patient's presentation in the seclusion room and their preferences for interactions, reading newspapers, poems, stories, or a book chapter aloud to patients, via the viewing panel could help ensure such connectedness. More focus should be placed on providing communication training to nurses to strengthen their communication skills in caring for individuals in challenging care situations. Patient education is paramount. Providing prior information to patients using a co-produced information leaflet might reduce their anxiety and make them feel safe in the room. When using cameras in the seclusion room, these should be pixelated to maintain patients' privacy. ABSTRACT: Introduction A lack of research investigating the specific role that various observational techniques may have in shaping the therapeutic relations in mental health care during seclusion warranted this study. Aim The aim of the study was to explore patients' experience of different methods of observation used while the patient was in seclusion. Method A retrospective phenomenological approach, using semi-structured interviews, ten patients' experiences of being observed in the seclusion room was investigated. Colaizzi's descriptive phenomenological method was followed to analyse the data. Results Communicating and engaging patients in meaningful activities can be achieved via the viewing panel. The camera was considered essential in monitoring behaviour and promoting a sense of safety. Pixelating the camera may transform patient view on privacy in seclusion. Discussion The mental health services must strive to prevent seclusion and every effort should be made to recognise the human rights of the patient. The study reveals numerous advantages when nurses actively engage in patient communication during the process of observation. Implications for Practice Different observation methods yield different benefits; therefore, staff education in using these methods is paramount. Empowering the patient with prior information on seclusion, engaging them in meaningful activities and proper documentation on patient engagement, supports the provision of individualised care in seclusion.

Many physical, psychological, and cognitive disorders are highly clustered among populations with low socioeconomic status. However, the extent to which socioeconomic status is associated with different combinations of these disorders is unclear, particularly outside high-income countries. We aimed to evaluate these associations in 33 countries including high-income countries, upper-middle-income countries, and one lower-middle-income country. This cross-sectional multi-region study pooled individual-level data from seven studies on ageing between 2017 and 2020. Education and total household wealth were used to measure socioeconomic status. Physical disorder was defined as having one or more of the self-reported chronic conditions. Psychological and cognitive disorders were measured by study-specific instruments. The outcome included eight categories: no disorders, physical disorder, psychological disorder, cognitive disorder, and their four combinations. Multivariable-adjusted logistic regression models were used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% CIs for the associations of socioeconomic status with these outcomes separately for high-income countries, upper-middle-income countries, and the lower-middle-income country. Among 167 376 individuals aged 45 years and older, the prevalence of multimorbidity was 24·5% in high-income countries, 33·9% in upper-middle-income countries, and 8·1% in the lower-middle-income country (India). Lower levels of education, household wealth, and a combined socioeconomic status score were strongly associated with physical, psychological, and cognitive multimorbidity in high-income countries and upper-middle-income countries, with ORs (low vs high socioeconomic status) for physical-psychological-cognitive multimorbidity of 12·36 (95% CI 10·29-14·85; p<0·0001) in high-income countries and of 23·84 (18·85-30·14; p<0·0001) in upper-middle-income countries. The associations in the lower-middle-income country were mixed. Participants with both a low level of education and low household wealth had the highest odds of multimorbidity (eg, OR for physical-psychological-cognitive multimorbidity 21·21 [15·95-28·19; p<0·0001] in high-income countries, 37·07 [25·66-53·56; p<0·0001] in upper-middle-income countries, and 54·96 [7·66-394·38; p<0·0001] in the lower-middle-income country). In study populations from high-income countries, upper-middle-income countries, and the lower-middle-income country, the odds of multimorbidity, which included physical, psychological, and cognitive disorders, were more than ten times greater in individuals with low socioeconomic status. Equity-oriented policies and programmes that reduce social inequalities in multimorbidity are urgently needed to achieve Sustainable Development Goals. Zhejiang University, Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities, The Key Laboratory of Intelligent Preventive Medicine of Zhejiang Province, Wellcome Trust, Medical Research Council, National Institute on Aging, and Academy of Finland. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

No abstract available.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) are common, often co-occur, and are associated with poor health outcomes across the life course. Emerging research has emphasized the lasting consequences of ACEs across generations, suggesting parental ACEs are associated with poor physical and mental health outcomes in children. However, the individual effects of fathers' ACEs and pathways of transmission remain unclear. A scoping review was conducted to summarize the current knowledgebase of the intergenerational consequences of parental ACEs on offspring health, clarify pathways of transmission, understand how ACEs are operationalized in the intergenerational literature, and identify gaps in knowledge. Six electronic databases were searched for articles published in English from 1995 to 2022 relating to the long-term consequences of parental ACEs on offspring physical and mental health. Articles underwent title, abstract, and full-text review by two investigators. Content analysis was performed to integrate findings across the included studies. The search yielded 14,542 unique articles; 49 met the inclusion criteria. Thirty-six articles focused exclusively on mothers, one solely on fathers, and 12 included both mothers and fathers in their analyses. Six studies used an expanded definition of ACEs. Both direct and indirect associations between parental ACEs and poor offspring outcomes were identified, primarily through biological and psychosocial pathways. Findings underscore the importance and oversight of fathers and the need to solidify a unified definition and measure of ACEs. This review identified modifiable protective factors (social support, father involvement) and pathways of transmission (parental mental health, parenting); both having important implications for intervention development.

Suicidal thoughts and behaviours (STB) are a common reason for presentation to emergency departments and general hospitals. A meta-analysis of the strength of clinical risk factors for subsequent suicide might aid understanding of suicidal behaviour and help suicide prevention. We conducted a meta-analysis of cohort and controlled studies on clinical risk factors and later suicide among people presenting to emergency departments and general hospitals with STB. Data were extracted from papers meeting inclusion criteria, published in Medline, PsycINFO, and Embase between 1 January 1960 and 10 October 2022 using papers located with the search terms ((suicide*).m_titl AND (emergency* OR accident and emergency OR casualty OR general hospital OR toxicology service).mp) or were indexed in PubMed and had titles located with the search terms (suicide* OR self-harm OR self-harm OR self-injury OR self-injury OR self-poisoning OR self-poisoning OR overdose OR para-suicide OR parasuicide [title/abstract]) AND (Emergency department OR emergency room OR Casualty OR general hospital OR toxicology OR accident and emergency [all fields]). Data about the association between clinical risk factors and suicide extracted from three or more studies were included in a random-effects meta-analysis of the odds of later death by suicide. The study was registered in PROSPERO and conducted according to MOOSE and PRISMA guidelines. Seventy-five studies reported on 741,624 people, of which 19,649 died by suicide (2.65%). Male sex (odds ratio (OR) = 1.99) and age (OR = 2.01) were the most consistently reported risk factors. The strongest associations with subsequent death by suicide related to violent self-harm methods at the hospital presentation, including: unspecified violent method (OR = 4.97), any violent method (OR = 4.57) and the specific violent methods of drowning (OR = 4.32), hanging (OR = 4.26), and use of firearms (OR = 10.08). Patients categorised as higher risk using suicide prediction scales or any other method that combined risk factors had moderately increased odds of suicide (OR = 2.58). Younger age, Black and Hispanic ethnicity, overdose, a diagnosis of adjustment disorder, and the absence of any psychiatric diagnosis were protective against suicide. Most risk factors for suicide among people who have presented with STB are not strongly associated with later suicide. The strongest risk factors relate to self-harm methods. In the absence of clear indicators of future suicide, all people presenting with suicidality warrant a thorough assessment of their needs, and further research is needed before we can meaningfully categorise people with STB according to suicide risk.

Several studies have suggested an inverse relationship between lower socioeconomic status (SES) and the incidence of congenital heart disease (CHD) among live births. We sought to examine this relationship further in a Canada-wide population study, exploring CHD subtypes, trends, and associated noncardiac abnormalities. Infants born in Canada (less Quebec) from 2008 to 2018 with CHD requiring intervention in the first year were identified using ICD-10 codes through the Canadian Institute for Health Information Discharge Abstract Database. Births of CHD patients were stratified by SES (census-based income quintiles) and compared against national birth proportions using X

Child sexual abuse (CSA) poses a significant threat to the health and well-being of children in the USA and globally. Many states have introduced or implemented policies to address and prevent CSA, but little research has linked the effects of this legislation on the reduction of adult-perpetrated CSA. The objective of this scoping review is to identify US policies which aim to prevent CSA, explain the components of these types of legislation, review evidence of effectiveness, describe the populations included in the literature, and identify barriers and facilitators to the implementation of said policies. This scoping review will follow Joanna Briggs Institute methodology for scoping reviews and will use the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews Checklist. Sources of peer-reviewed evidence from January 2000 to July 2023 will be included. Relevant publications will first be searched in PubMed/MEDLINE database, then 25 other databases. The reference lists of included studies and high-yield journals will be hand searched. Articles which focus on the types of CSA prevention policies and their effects will be included. Studies must clearly demonstrate a connection between policies and CSA outcomes. Title, abstract, full-text screening and extraction will be completed by a team of three researchers. Critical appraisal of the included studies will be performed. Extracted data will be displayed in tabular form and a narrative summary will describe the results of the review. This scoping review will provide an extensive overview of legislative policies which aim to prevent CSA in the USA. Results of this review will inform future CSA prevention policies in the USA, particularly regarding policy development, evaluation and implementation. Results will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication.

The objective of this review was to determine the effect of educational programs that have been implemented in acute health care settings to manage or prevent aggressive behaviors toward staff perpetrated by patients, families, or visitors. Health care staff working within acute-level and tertiary-level hospitals are at high risk of exposure to aggressive behaviors by patients, their family, or visitors. Negative staff and organizational impacts reported in the literature include individual psychological or emotional distress and severe harm, increased absenteeism, high staff turnover, and awarded compensation. Reports of this kind of occupational violence are increasing globally; therefore, strategies to address prevention and management are needed to mitigate the risk of harm to staff and the wider hospital service. Various educational activities have been implemented to address the issue, but the overall effect of these is unclear. Experimental and quasi-experimental studies were considered for inclusion if they reported on an educational program or intervention for staff working within an acute hospital setting and aimed at managing or preventing occupational violence perpetrated by patients, family, or visitors. Reports of programs implemented to address occupational violence, whether verbal or physical, were included. Studies were excluded if they reported on upward violence or bullying, patients in psychiatric or dementia facilities, or pediatric patients, due to the specific care needs of these cohorts. The following databases were searched: PubMed (PubMed Central), CINAHL (EBSCOhost), PsycINFO (EBSCOhost), Embase, ERIC (ProQuest), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Cochrane Library), and Scopus. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses was searched for unpublished studies. To obtain a wider perspective of the issue, studies published in Chinese were also searched in WanFang Database, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, and Chongqing VIP. A date filter of 2008-2023 was applied in a deliberate effort to expand from previous work. No language filters were applied. The review was conducted in accordance with JBI methodology for systematic reviews of effectiveness, and reported as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The search process retrieved 4681 citations. A total of 32 studies representing 3246 health staff were included in the review. The studies were either before-and-after or pre-test/post-test study designs. Methodological quality of studies varied, with the main issues being absence of CIs within statistical analysis, limited detail on participant selection or attrition/non-response, and underreporting of confounding factors. Educational programs varied in content and duration. Content delivery across the studies also varied, with several didactic, role-play, debriefing, group work, and simulation exercises reported. While studies reported some improvement in self-reported confidence levels, results were mixed for other outcomes. Determining overall effect of included studies was challenging due to heterogeneity within and across studies with regard to intervention types, populations, measurement tools, and outcomes. This review is unable to determine which workplace educational programs had an effect on staff outcomes or on the number of occupational violence incidents. In the future, educators and researchers could use the findings of this review to guide the design of educational programs and employ measures that are comparable to their settings. PROSPERO CRD42020190538. A Chinese-language version of the abstract of this review is available [ http://links.lww.com/SRX/A33 ].

There is growing recognition that young people should be given opportunities to participate in the decisions that affect their lives, such as advisory groups, representative councils, advocacy or activism. Positive youth development theory and sociopolitical development theory propose pathways through which youth participation can influence mental health and wellbeing outcomes. However, there is limited empirical research synthesising the impact of participation on youth mental health and/or wellbeing, or the characteristics of activities that are associated with better or worse mental health and/or wellbeing outcomes. This scoping review seeks to address this gap by investigating the scope and nature of evidence detailing how youth participation initiatives can influence mental health and/or wellbeing outcomes for participants. To be eligible, literature must describe youth (aged 15-24) in participation activities and the impact of this engagement on participant mental health and/or wellbeing outcomes. A systematic scoping review of peer-reviewed and grey literature will be conducted using Scopus, PsycINFO, Embase, Medline and grey literature databases. The scoping review will apply established methodology by Arksey and O'Malley, Levac and colleagues and the Joanna Briggs Institute. Title, abstract, and full text screening will be completed by two reviewers, data will be extracted by one reviewer. Findings will be reported in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR), including a qualitative summary of the characteristics of youth participation and their influence on youth mental health outcomes. Youth advisory group members will be invited to deliver governance on the project from the outset; participate in, and contribute to, all stages of the review process; reflect on their own experiences of participation; and co-author the resulting publication. This scoping review will provide essential knowledge on how participation activities can be better designed to maximise beneficial psychosocial outcomes for involved youth.

Chronic pain services in the UK are required to provide services which meet the diverse needs of patients, but little is known about the access and use of these services by minority ethnic groups. To assess the available evidence regarding the ethnic profile of adults who access secondary and tertiary chronic pain services in the UK. A scoping review was conducted (August 2021-October 2021), comprising comprehensive literature searches using Embase, Medline and CINAHL databases and the grey literature. Studies were included if they reported on (i) access to chronic pain services in secondary and/or tertiary care in the UK, (ii) adults and (iii) stated the ethnicity of the involved participants. Studies were included if published between 2004 and 2021, as demographic data during this period would be broadly representative of the UK population, as per the 2021 UK census. A descriptive synthesis of the extracted data was performed. The search yielded 124 records after duplicates were removed. Following title and abstract screening, 44 full texts were screened, ten of which were included in the review. This is the first review to explore access to chronic pain services for adults from minority ethnic groups in the UK. Given the limited number of studies that met the inclusion criteria, the review highlights the need for routine collection of ethnicity data using consistent ethnic categories within UK chronic pain services and increased involvement of minority ethnic groups within chronic pain research. Findings should inform future research that aims to improve access to UK chronic pain services for adults from minority ethnic groups.

The objective was to identify and describe the published guidance and current academic discourse of ethical issues and standards related to the use of  A scoping review of the literature was conducted in PubMed and Embase and identified 935 potential references published between January 2017 and June 2021. After title and abstract screening by three reviewers, 40 publications were included, the relevant information was extracted and data were collected in a mind map, which was then used to structure the output of the review. An actively engaged approach to ensuring ethical innocuousness is recommended that carefully follows best practices throughout planning, conduct, and communication of the research. Throughout the process and as a follow-up, there should be a discourse with the ethical experts to maximally protect the current and future users of social media, to support their trust in the research, and to advance the knowledge in parallel to the advancement of the media themselves, the technologies, and the research tools.

Shortages of nurses and unequal distribution of nursing staff have been huge challenges for global health services. The aim of our study was to evaluate the impact of the National Nursing Development Plan on nursing human resources in China. An interrupted time series design was used in this study. The data for this study were extracted from the National Health Statistics Yearbook from 1978 to 2021. The Ministry of Health issued the National Nursing Development Plan (2005-2010) in July 2005. Subsequently, the strategic plan was issued every 5 years: the National Nursing Development Plan (2011-2015), the National Nursing Development Plan (2016-2020), and the National Nursing Development Plan (2021-2025). This study used five indicators including 1) the number of registered nurses (RNs) in China, 2) the number of RNs per 1000 population in China, 3) the proportion of RNs in health technical personnel in China, 4) the doctor-nurse ratio and 5) the number of nurses working in primary medical institutions to evaluate the changing trend of nursing human resources in China from 1978 to 2021. Interrupted time series analysis showed that after the implementation of the National Nursing Development Plan (2005-2010), the building of nurses in China was gradually strengthening, and the number of RNs in China increased by 0.198 million per year (95%CI 0.174-0.223; P < 0.001); the number of RNs per 1000 population (Coefficient = 0.139; 95%CI 0.123-0.154; P < 0.001); the proportion of RNs in the total number of health professionals in China has increased from 29.6 % to 44.6 % (Coefficient = 0.010; 95%CI 0.009-0.010; P < 0.001); in China, the doctor-nurse ratio increased by 0.024 (95%CI 0.019-0.029; P < 0.001). In 2021, the number of RNs working in primary medical institutions increased by approximately 0.86 million compared with that in 2005, and the proportion of RNs in the country increased by 1.4 %. The development of nurses is especially tilted to the primary level to meet the health and nursing needs of the primary level. The implementation of the National Nursing Development Plan has greatly expanded the scale of nursing human resources in China and significantly optimized the efficiency of allocation. The implementation of the National Nursing Development Plan (2011-2015) and the National Nursing Development Plan (2016-2020) well continued the strategic plan from 2005 to 2010, further expanded the nursing workforce and further optimized the allocation efficiency. The implementation of the National Nursing Development Plan has greatly expanded the scale of nursing human resources in China and significantly optimized the efficiency of allocation.

The 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza A virus (A(H1N1)pdm09 virus) evolves rapidly and has continued to cause severe infections in children since its emergence in 2009. We aimed to characterise the kinetics of maternally and naturally acquired antibodies against historical A(H1N1)pdm09 strains and to assess the extent to which the response to heterologous strains following infection or vaccination affects observed A(H1N1)pdm09 strain-specific antibody titres in a Chinese paediatric population. In this retrospective study, we used residual serum samples from 528 mother-neonate pairs from a non-interventional, longitudinal cohort study in southern China conducted from Sept 20, 2013, to Aug 24, 2018, from six local hospitals in Anhua County, Hunan Province, China. Mother-neonate pairs were eligible for inclusion if the neonates were born after Sept 20, 2013, and their mothers had resided in the study sites for at least 3 months. We tested samples with a haemagglutination inhibition (HAI) assay to measure antibody levels against three historical A(H1N1)pdm09 strains that were antigenically similar to the strains that circulated during the 2009 pandemic (A/Hunan-Kaifu/SWL4204/2009 [SWL4204/09 strain], A/Hunan-Daxiang/SWL1277/2016 [SWL1277/16 strain], and A/Hunan-Yanfeng/SWL185/2018 [SWL185/18 strain]). We also determined the seroprevalence, geometric mean titres (GMTs), transfer ratio of maternal antibodies, and the dynamics of maternally and naturally acquired antibodies in children, from birth to 3 years of age. 1066 mother-neonate pairs were enrolled in the original cohort between Sept 20, 2013, and Oct 14, 2015. Of these, 528 pairs (523 mothers, 528 neonates) were selected for the present study. The median age of the mothers was 25 years (IQR 23 to 29). 291 (55%) of 528 children were boys and 237 (45%) were girls, and most children (452 [86%]) were breastfed before the age of 6 months. The GMTs and the seroprevalence for the SWL4204/09 strain were higher than those for the SWL1277/16 and SWL185/18 strains among mothers (GMTs: 10·4 [95% CI 9·8 to 11·1] vs 9·3 [8·7 to 9·8] vs 8·0 [7·5 to 8·4], p<0·0001; seroprevalence: 11·1% [95% CI 8·5 to 14·1] vs 6·9% [4·9 to 9·4] vs 4·6% [3·0 to 6·8], p=0·0003) and among neonates (GMTs: 10·7 [10·0 to 11·5] vs 9·4 [8·8 to 10·0] vs 8·1 [7·6 to 8·6], p<0·0001; seroprevalence: 13·4% [10·7 to 16·7] vs 8·7% [6·5 to 11·5] vs 6·1% [4·2 to 8·5], p=0·0002). Regardless of the A(H1N1)pdm09-specific strain, maternal antibodies could be transferred efficiently via the placenta (mean transfer ratios: 1·10 for SWL4204/09 vs 1·09 for SWL1277/16 vs 1·06 for SWL185/18; p=0·93). The A(H1N1)pdm09 strain-specific antibodies waned below the protective threshold of 1:40 within 2 months after birth. After maternal antibody waning, there were periodic increases and decreases in HAI antibody titres against three A(H1N1)pdm09 strains, and such increases were all significantly associated with a higher immune response to heterologous strains. Vaccination against the SWL4204/09 strain was associated with a poor response to the SWL185/18 strain (β-0·20, 95% CI -0·28 to -0·13; p<0·0001). Our findings suggest low pre-existing immunity against influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus among unvaccinated Chinese adult female and paediatric populations. This evidence, together with the rapid decay of maternal antibodies and the observed cross-reactivity among different A(H1N1)pdm09 strains, highlights the importance of accelerating maternal and paediatric influenza vaccination in China. The Key Program of the National Natural Science Foundation of China. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

The aim of this systematic review is to critically summarize current literature concerning ethical and legal issues related compulsory treatment (CT) in patients with anorexia nervosa (AN). Relevant articles were identified following the PRISMA guidelines after performing title/abstract screening and full text screening. We built the search string using the following terms: "coercion", "compulsory/involuntary treatment", "eating disorders", "anorexia nervosa", "mental capacity", "ethical/legal issues". Research was conducted on original articles published from any time until June 2023. Out of 302 articles retrieved, seven were included for the analysis, including five studies on mental health practitioners, and two on hospital records. The results show that mental health practitioners a) favor the use of CT, but the support is weaker in AN vs other psychiatric conditions (i.e., schizophrenia or depression); b) support of mental capacity is controversial and some variability was found between different categories of psychiatrists; in particular, both ED-treating and CT experienced mental health practitioners support higher use of CT and lack of capacity of AN patients vs. general psychiatrists; c) use of CT is more supported in the early vs. chronic AN, when chances of success are lower. The analysis of hospital records identified 1) comorbidities, previous admissions and current health risk as CT predictors in 96 Australian patients; 2) family conflicts association with longer hospitalizations in 70 UK patients. CT is usually intended for patients with AN at the onset of disease, mainly to prevent risk of death and self-injury. However, there is some variability in the attitude to perform CT among psychiatrists working in different setting, also related to the concept of mental capacity. There are also cross-national variabilities regarding CT. We can conclude that forcing patients to treatment is a conceivable option, but the balance between protection respect for patient's autonomy should be evaluated on individual bases.

Emotional support is key to improve older adults' subjective health, and psychological, social and emotional well-being. However, many older adults living in the community lack emotional support, increasing the risk for loneliness, depression, anxiety, potentially avoidable healthcare use and costs, and premature death. Multiple intersecting factors may influence emotional support of older adults in the community, but these are poorly understood. Studies have focused on specific populations (e.g., older adults with depression, cancer). Although relevant, these studies may not capture modifiable factors for the wider and more diverse population of older adults living in the community. Our scoping review will address these important gaps. We will identify and synthesize the evidence on factors that influence emotional support of older adults in the community. We will use the Johanna Briggs Institute updated methodological guidance for the conduct of scoping reviews to guide our review process. We will search MEDLINE, EMBASE, APA Psycinfo, CINAHL, Dissertations and Theses Global, and Scopus from inception. We will include studies published in English, examining factors influencing emotional support of older adults residing in community, without restrictions on the study design or year of publication. We will also include gray literature (dissertations and reports). Two independent reviewers will conduct title, abstract, and full-text screening, as well as risk of bias assessment, using validated quality appraisal tools based on study designs. Discrepancies will be resolved by consensus. The primary reviewer will extract the data from all studies, and the second reviewer will check the extractions of all the studies. We will use descriptive statistics and narrative synthesis for analysis. Family/friend caregivers and older adults involved as an advisory group will help with explaining the findings in terms of whether associations observed reflect their experiences and reality. We will analyze the discussion and generate themes, and summarize in a narrative form. This scoping review may identify factors that could be modified or mitigated to improve emotional support provision for older adults residing in community. The knowledge will inform the development of tailored interventions directed to older adults and their caregivers. https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/4TAEB (associated project link: osf.io/6y48t).

The COVAX alliance is a novel approach to international partnership in global health intended to achieve the worthy goal of 'COVID-19 vaccine equity'. This study aimed to identify the implementation challenges and framework gaps of COVAX and to explore the interconnected global health policy and governance gaps in ensuring equity, accessibility and affordability of vaccines. A scoping review was conducted to identify the implementation challenges and framework gaps of COVAX and related global health policy and governance gaps. A search was carried out in PubMed, Scopus, Springer Link and Embase databases. Manually searched the grey literature, such as official reports and articles. EndNote V.20 was used to manage the evidence screening, and data extraction was carried out in Microsoft Excel. Searches of four electronic databases and official UN, GAVI and WHO websites identified 4686 pieces of evidence. The 937 duplicates were removed, and the remaining 3749 articles were screened for the title and abstract. Most articles were eliminated as they do not address global COVAX or COVID-19 vaccine equity. The remaining 53 pieces of evidence were reviewed for full text, and ultimately 40 articles found eligible were included in the scoping review. The implementation challenges of COVAX were attributed mainly to the phenomenon of vaccine nationalism by rich countries. The future global health policy and governance structure must be re-examined to address the inadequacies of such novel super public-and-private partnership models.

Zambia is among the countries making major progress in limiting cases of the neglected tropical disease lymphatic filariasis on the path to reaching global elimination targets. For this trend to continue, it is essential for strategies and policies targeting the disease in Zambia to be based on the most recent and relevant literature. The scope of research on lymphatic filariasis in the Zambian context is currently poorly understood. Therefore, this study describes a scoping review protocol which will be used to analyze the body of literature on lymphatic filariasis in Zambia. The scoping review protocol was developed following the PRISMA reporting guidelines for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) and the JBI Scoping Review Methodology Group's guidance on conducting scoping reviews. In consultation with a research librarian, these guidelines will be applied to a literature search of articles from peer-reviewed journals, or government and international regulatory bodies using PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane CENTRAL, WHO ICTRP, Pan African Clinical Trials Registry, and ClinicalTrials.gov. Each record will be screened at the abstract and full-text level by two independent reviewers, and results reported via summary statistics. Understanding the current state of research on lymphatic filariasis in Zambia will identify major knowledge and intervention gaps in this context, and serve as a source of information for surrounding countries in the region. As the disease prevalence drops, efforts for elimination will require carefully targeted strategies which can be informed from the literature identified in this protocol.

This qualitative systematic review aims to understand the experiences of neurotypical siblings of a person with autism spectrum disorder. Autism spectrum disorder influences communication and social interaction with other people and has a significant impact on family relationships. The experiences of siblings range from the positive, such as development of increased empathy and ability to cope with challenges, to experiences that are more negative, such as a higher risk of bullying. In many countries, neurotypical siblings are marginalized and don't receive adequate support to cope with the increased challenges. This review will consider qualitative studies exploring the experiences of siblings of a person with autism spectrum disorder. There will be no limitations regarding age, gender, sex, or length of relationship with the sibling. We will consider studies from all countries and contexts. This study will be conducted according to the JBI methodology for qualitative reviews. A 3-step search strategy will be used to find published and unpublished studies from the following sources: MEDLINE, CINAHL, APA PsycINFO, Scopus, SocINDEX, Web of Science, Embase, ERIC, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, Open Dissertations, and Google Scholar (first 100 records). There will be no search limitations on the publication period or language, but only studies with an English-language abstract/title will be considered for inclusion. Screening, data extraction, and data synthesis will be conducted by 2 independent reviewers.

Racism is frequently mentioned as a social determinant of migrants' health and a barrier to health services. However, in the European context, racism and its impact on racialized migrants' access to healthcare is remarkably under-researched. This scoping review makes a first step toward filling this void by mapping the existing literature on racial and ethnic discrimination against racialized migrants in healthcare in Europe, identifying evidence gaps, and offering recommendations for future research on this topic. Following PRISMA guidelines, four databases were searched for empirical studies published in English between 1992 and 2022. Studies were included if they report findings on manifestations, experiences and/or impacts of racial or ethnic discrimination against racialized migrants in a healthcare setting in a European country. They were summarized by study characteristics (geographical scope, study design, research question and measures) and research findings were synthesized. Out of 2365 initial hits, 1724 records were included in the title/abstract-screening, 87 records in the full text-screening, and 38 records in the data extraction. For many country and healthcare contexts, evidence on racism in healthcare is lacking. Most studies apply an explorative qualitative research design; comparability and generalizability of research results are low. Our analysis furthermore shows a near-exclusive research focus on racism on the interpersonal level as compared to institutional and structural levels. Our synthesis of study results identifies three interrelated ways in which racism manifests in and impacts migrants' healthcare: 1) general anti-migration bias, 2) health- and healthcare-related prejudice, and 3) differential medical treatment. Our review underscores how racism reinforces inequities in healthcare access and quality for racialized migrants. It also highlights the need for more research on racism in Europe across a greater scope of country contexts, healthcare settings and migrant/racialized categories in order to understand specific forms of racism and capture race as a context-contingent social construct. It is critical that future research includes the consideration of individual-level racism as embedded in racism on institutional and structural levels. Methods and insights from other disciplines may help to critically examine concepts in light of underlying historical, sociopolitical and socioeconomic processes and structures, and to improve methods for researching racialization and racism in healthcare.

Young people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds experience barriers accessing sexual and reproductive health (SRH) information and care. This systematic review, utilising a pre-determined protocol, performed according to PRISMA guidelines, explored SRH knowledge, attitudes and information sources for young (16-24 years) culturally and linguistically diverse background people living in Australia, to gain understanding of their sexual health literacy. CINAHL, Embase, MEDLINE, PubMed and Scopus were systematically searched with inclusion criteria applied to 216 articles. After title and abstract screening, backward/forward searching, and full-text review of 58 articles, 13 articles from eight studies were identified. Thematic analysis, guided by core constructs from cultural care theory, identified three themes: (1) SRH knowledge varied by topic but was generally low; (2) young people's attitudes and beliefs were influenced by family and culture; however, 'silence' was the main barrier to sexual health literacy; and (3) Access to SRH information was limited. To attain sexual health literacy and equitable access to culturally-congruent and responsive SRH information and care, there is a need for theory-informed strategies and policies that address the diverse social, cultural and structural factors affecting young culturally and linguistically diverse background people, especially the 'silence' or lack of open SRH communication they experience.

With the advent of direct acting antivirals, the World Health Organisation proposed eliminating Hepatitis C as a public health threat by 2030. To achieve this, countries need to diagnose, engage in care and treat their undiagnosed populations. This will require sensitisation campaigns. However previous media campaigns have had mixed impact. We conducted a scoping review to identify and understand the impact of previous Hepatitis C media campaigns. These findings could inform the delivery of future campaigns. We searched five electronic databases for published literature on media campaigns conducted for Hepatitis C awareness, testing, and treatment in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries since 2010. Two independent reviewers screened citations for inclusion. Additionally, we spoke to stakeholders in the Hepatitis C field in the UK and conducted a Google search to identify any unpublished literature. A quantitative synthesis was conducted to identify targeted populations, strategies and media used, aims and impact of the campaigns. A title and year of publication screening of 3815 citations resulted in 113 papers that had a full abstract screen. This left 50 full-text papers, 18 were included of which 9 (50%) were from Europe. 5 (27.8%) of campaigns targeted minority ethnicities, and 9 (50%) aimed to increase testing. A Google search identified 6 grey literature sources. Most campaigns were not evaluated for impact. Discussions with stakeholders identified several barriers to successful campaigns including lack of targeted messaging, stigmatising or accusatory messaging, and short-lived or intermittent campaign strategies. Future campaigns will likely need to be multifaceted and have multiple tailored interventions. Campaigns will need to be sizeable and robust, integrated into health systems and viewed as an ongoing service rather than one-offs.

Multimodal communication via social media employed by governments as a COVID-19 communication strategy with multilingual populations hopes to alter behaviours and attitudes. However, there is presently no understanding about the responsiveness of these videos to the needs of culturally and linguistically diverse (CaLD) populations in Australia. This study aimed to analyse the cultural responsiveness of content in multilingual videos shared via a government social media page from NSW, Australia. A systematic search of videos shared between June 2021 and October 2021 was conducted. Using quantitative methods, 37 videos were analysed using a modified version of the Patient-oriented and culturally-adapted (POCA) healthcare translation model and readability indexes. Of these, 5/37 were classified as culturally responsive. The culturally responsive videos scored higher than those that were not culturally responsive. While credible sources, positive language and cultural symbols were observed in several of the videos, there was a lack of familiar experiences and economically viable vaccine uptake behaviours. Videos favoured generic examples of vaccine practices and failed to address concerns about vaccine eligibility, cost, and transport. All videos exceeded recommended readability indices for CaLD populations. Removing complex and abstract terminology and including familiar vaccine experiences could improve multilingual communication for CaLD communities.

Mothers who use drugs are more likely to experience child custody loss than mothers who do not use drugs. The negative impact of removal on children has been well characterized in current literature while less is known about the impact of custody loss on mothers. The purpose of this mixed studies systematic review is to describe the state of science on the maternal outcomes and experiences after child custody loss among mothers who use drugs. PubMed, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Social Work Abstract databases were systematically searched between June 2022 to January 2023. Article eligibility criteria centered on the outcomes and experiences of mothers who use drugs after losing child custody. Studies were analyzed using results-based convergent synthesis methodology for mixed studies reviews. Study quality was assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool (MMAT). A visual synthesis model was derived from combined results across all studies. Of 2434 articles screened, 22 relevant scientific articles were selected for inclusion. Longitudinal, cohort studies (n=4) and a cross-sectional study (n=1) identified positive associations between custody loss and poorer mental health, increased drug use and overdose risk, less treatment engagement, and worsened social factors. Qualitative studies (n=17) identified themes that described re-traumatization after child custody loss and the development of coping mechanisms through identity negotiation. Our findings indicate that child custody loss associated with drug use may exacerbate trauma and worsen maternal health. Immediate implications are provided for maternal health policy and practice in healthcare, child welfare, and legal professions.

Social media platforms communicate narratives of individuals, specifically the narrative of motherhood. The ascendant mothering narrative in Western society is Intensive Mothering Ideology (IMI). These ideals, norms, and practices set unattainable standards. Highly romanticized versions of motherhood portrayed on social media tend to stimulate social comparisons among women potentially impacting their well-being. This scoping review seeks to examine the literature that identifies the impact of social comparison via social media on maternal mental health, within the context of IMI. The methodology by Arksey and O'Malley guided the approach to creating this scoping review. Systematic searches of articles published within the previous 10 years were conducted in Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), PubMed, and PsycINFO. Searches aimed to capture concepts regarding social media as a medium for social comparison, and transmission of intensive mothering ideologies ultimately impacting maternal mental health. Articles were screened at the title and abstract level first, followed by application of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Nine articles were selected for inclusion in this scoping review. The studies were published in seven peer-reviewed journals, from four different countries with most originating from the United States. Results revealed that making social comparisons after exposure to intensive mothering ideas negatively impacted maternal well-being. Within the context of the Social Comparison Theory (SCT), maternal characteristics like self-esteem and maternal comparison orientation (MCO) seem to mediate the impact that social media has on maternal mental health. Social media communicates highly idealized motherhood mores, and critical analyses should focus on how mothers use social media.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Women are more likely to experience intimate partner violence (IPV) than men; 19.2%-69.0% of women have experienced IPV, and the percentage is increasing. Survivors of IPV suffer from physical, psychological, social and reproductive health problems and numerous adverse health consequences such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. These are considered IPV comorbidities, especially among women. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study reviews and reinforces existing scientific knowledge regarding the application of trauma-informed care (TIC), including intervention content or type, frequency, duration of session and length. This study focused on the effects of TIC. Furthermore, it examines short-term (3 months) and medium-term (6 months) outcome effects, which are more significant for clinical practice. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Development of a standardized protocol to address specific needs for TIC in IPV care settings. Among multidisciplinary teams, nurses are the ideal professionals to support women experiencing IPV. They can understand their traumatic experiences better, improve their therapeutic relationships and engage patients in collaborative care. INTRODUCTION: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression and anxiety are considered intimate partner violence (IPV) comorbidities, especially among women. Trauma-informed care (TIC) is the most common element of IPV care. This study analysed the short-term (3 months) and medium-term (6 months) outcomes of TIC on PTSD, depression and anxiety in women experiencing IPV. The Preferred Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines were followed, and databases were searched from their inception to September 2022. Thirteen randomized controlled trials included 850 women randomly assigned to the TIC and usual care groups. Overall, TIC showed a superior psychological health-improving effect. Depression and anxiety significantly improved after treatment and at three and 6 months. No difference was observed in PTSD between the two groups at 3 and 6 months. The growing evidence demonstrates that the lack of IPV intervention effects reported by reviews may be due to the attributes of PTSD, heterogeneity of TIC intervention design and components of TIC. Therefore, its clinical efficacy remains inconclusive. We analysed studies by stratifying intervention frequencies of once or twice a week. Regardless of the intervention frequency, length and design, PTSD decreased immediately after the TIC intervention. However, a significant difference in depression was observed after a TIC intervention of above 9 weeks.

Media's Stranglehold on Storm and Stress - The Sorrows of Generation Z about Sex and Gender 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: People with mental health problems are often left behind, forgotten and excludedLittle is known or written from a service user perspective about experiences of psychiatry, mental health nursing, Mental Health Tribunals and alternative approaches (such as counselling, peer support, psychological and recovery approaches, cognitive behavioural therapy-CBT and creative/art/music/drama/horticultural/dance therapies). WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper aims to remedy this gap in knowledgeIt focuses on positive and negative experiences of psychiatry, Mental Health Tribunals and alternative treatments from a service user's perspective. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The paper makes several recommendations. In brief, (1) psychiatrists need to listen more attentively rather than being focused on signs of psychosis; (2) de-escalation techniques (for example, talking calmly with the patient) should be used by nurses before physical restraint; (3) psychiatry should be less biomedical. Nurses and social care professionals deserve better training, time for and practice in alternative and more therapeutic forms of care; (4) carers need to be more involved; (5) there need to be better, more democratic, more open processes of law; (6) voluntary work and supported employment schemes should be run by health and social services for people who want to work and want to have a vocational life. This paper aims to describe the lived experience of mental illness, coercive treatment by psychiatry and mental health nursing, and the problematic case and bias of Mental Health Tribunals. It then looks at more positive experiences of alternative approaches and makes recommendations for improving mental health services and people's experiences of them.

The ongoing war in Ukraine presents unique challenges to prehospital medical care for wounded combatants and civilians. The purpose of this article is to identify, describe, and address gaps in prehospital care, casualty evacuation, and medical evacuation throughout Ukraine to share lessons for other providers. Observations and experiences of medical personnel were collected and analyzed, focusing on pain management, antibiotic use, patient assessment, mass casualty triage, blood loss, hypothermia, transport immobilization, and clinical governance. Gaps identified include limited access to pain management, lack of antibiotic guidance, inadequate patient assessment and triage, access to damage control resuscitation and blood, challenged transport immobilization practices, and challenges with clinical governance for both local and foreign providers. Improved prehospital care and casualty and medical evacuation in Ukraine are required, through increased use of empiric pain management, focused antibiotic guidance, enhanced patient assessment and triage in the form of training, access to prehospital blood, and better transport immobilization practices. A robust and active lessons learned program, trauma data capture, and quality improvement process is needed to reduce preventable morbidity and mortality in the war zone. The recommendations presented in this article serve as a starting point for improvements in prehospital care in Ukraine with potential to change prehospital training for the NATO alliance and other organizations operating in similar areas of conflict. Graphical Abstract.

Genetic Diagnostics in Everyday Clinical Practice in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry: Indications, Framework Conditions, Hurdles, and Proposed Solutions 

The Government of Kerala in 2017 launched the Aardram Mission with the aim to revamp public health delivery in the State. A key strategy under the mission was its focus on comprehensive primary health care to achieve equitable health care delivery through the Family Health Centre (FHC) initiative. Given this, the current study aims to examine the primary health care policy discourse for their perspectives on caste-driven inequities. The study undertook a Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA) of the primary health care policy discourse in Kerala. This included CDA of spoken words by senior health policy actors and policy texts on Aardram Mission and FHC. Though equity was a major aspirational goal of the Mission, related policy discourse around equity failed to acknowledge caste as a potential axis of health marginalisation in the State. The dismissal of caste manifested in three major ways within the policy discourse. One, the 'invisibilisation' of caste-driven inequities through strategies of (un)conscious exclusion of Dalit issues and 'obliteration' of caste differences through the construction of abstract and homogenous groups that invisibilise Dalits. Secondly, locating caste as a barrier to primary health care initiatives and health equity in the state, and finally through the maintenance of an 'apoliticised' social determinants discourse that fails to recognize the role of caste in shaping health disparities, specifically among Dalits in Kerala. Given Kerala's renewed commitment to strengthening its public health provisioning, the acknowledgment of caste-driven inequities is invariable in its path toward health equity and social justice.

To evaluate oral conditions, demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) in adolescents. Umbrella review, conducted according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta Analyzes (PRISMA) checklist. The search strategy used a combination of words, applied in the electronic databases PubMed, WebScience, Embase, Lilacs, Scopus and Cochrane. Included publications until January 2022, without restrictions. Data collection took place with systematized practices and the eligibility criteria were studies focusing on OHRQoL; teenagers; adolescentes; present the term "systematic review" and/or "meta-analysis" in the title or abstract. The quality assessment followed the Assessment of Multiple Systematic Reviews (AMSTAR 2) and the adherence of the article to the PRISMA was verified. Three hundred sixty-two articles were identified, and 22 were included, published between 2009 and 2022. 21 Systematic reviews focused on the English language. Most studies showed heterogeneity in the methodological structuring process: 10 articles were considered of low and 10 critically low quality. Clinical conditions associated with worsening in quality of life were dental caries, malocclusion, dental trauma, toothache, edentulism, need for orthodontic treatment, irregular brushing, and periodontal disease. Socioeconomic factors related to housing, parental education, access to health care, absence of siblings and nuclear family influence OHRQoL. Completion of orthodontic treatment, health promotion programs, dental care and safe housing all have a positive impact. Worse oral health status, older age, female sex and worse socioeconomic status were significantly associated with worse OHRQoL. PROSPERO CRD4202129352.

Homelessness is a complex social issue that significantly impairs the health of those affected. People experiencing homelessness (PEH) have a higher prevalence of adverse health outcomes, including premature mortality, compared with the general population, with cancer being the second-leading cause of death. The objective of this scoping review is to map the evidence to assess the exposure of PEH to known cancer risk factors and identify barriers and facilitators PEH experience in accessing cancer prevention services. This scoping review will be conducted in line with the Joanna Briggs Institute guidelines for scoping reviews. For a time window from the date of database establishment until 20 February 2023, the research team will create a detailed search strategy and apply it to the following databases: CINAHL, Embase, Global Index Medicus, PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science. In addition, we will search OpenGrey and Google for grey literature and contact non-governmental organisations to request relevant reports. In the first stage, eligibility criteria will be assessed through a blinded title/abstract assessment, and following this assessment, a full-text screening will be performed. Subsequently, the research team will perform the data extraction and synthesise all relevant information in relation to the scoping review question. As this protocol does not involve gathering primary data, ethical approval is not necessary. The results of this review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and on institutional websites.

"If certain tensions are present, it affects everyone": Multiple case study on processes of coercive measures. 

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) studies reveal the profound impacts of experiencing trauma and hardships in childhood. However, the cumulative risk approach of treating ACEs obscures the heterogeneity of ACEs and their consequences, making actionable interventions impossible. latent class analysis (LCA) has increasingly been used to address these concerns by identifying underlying subgroups of people who experience distinctive patterns of co-occurring ACEs. Though LCA has its strengths, the existing research produces few comparable findings because LCA results are dependent on ACEs measures and indicators, which vary widely by study. Therefore, a scoping review of ACEs studies using LCA that focuses on ACEs measures, indicators, and findings is needed to inform the field. Following Arksey and O'Malley's five-stage scoping review methodological framework, we first identified 211 articles from databases of EBSCOhost, PubMed, and Scopus using "adverse childhood experiences" for title search and "latent class analysis" for abstract search. Based on the inclusion criteria of peer-reviewed articles written in English published from 2012 to 2022 and the exclusion criteria of nonempirical studies and the LCA not analyzing ACEs, we finally selected 58 articles in this scoping review. Results showed LCA has been increasingly endorsed in the ACEs research community to examine the associations between ACEs and human health and well-being across culturally diverse populations. LCA overcame the limitations of the traditional methods by revealing specific ACEs clusters that exert potent effects on certain outcomes. However, the arbitrary nature of selecting ACEs indicators, measures, and the limited use of theory impedes the field from moving forward.

Acne is a highly prevalent disease that mainly affects the pilosebaceous units associated with sebaceous glands, causing inflammatory skin lesions and affecting the self-esteem, mental health, and quality of life of those who suffer from this disease. Different treatments exist today to prevent, reduce, and improve symptoms; however, over the years, there have been problems with bacterial resistance and slight effectiveness with prolonged use. The purpose of this article is based on the review of patents of new products of principal topical administration for the treatment of acne in recent years 2016-2020, to evaluate and analyze novel synthetic molecules and semi-synthetics with potential therapeutic and preventive in the acne treatment. A systematic review of patents was conducted through the official database of the European Patent Office - Espacenet, where the search focused on the keywords: "acne and bacteria" in the title or abstract. Only patents granted between the years 2016-2020 were included, with products having molecules with a synthetic and semi-synthetic origin, without considering natural, biological products or those used as diagnostic means. A total of 19 patents were selected, most with principally antimicrobial and antiinflammatory action, where the reduction in the appearance of resistance by C. acnes is verified, and its action is complemented by inhibiting the different pathophysiological mechanisms that lead to the worsening of the disease. Novel approaches in the treatment and prevention of acne, mainly topically, are focused on the reduction of bacterial resistance and irritation compared to current treatments. The use of combined formulations provides better results with additional benefits, improving treatment times and patient adherence.

Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a global public health crisis associated with adverse physical, psychological, economic, and social consequences. Studies on the impact of COVID-19 on IPV against women are scarce. This study aimed to understand the impact of COVID-19 on IPV against women. Google Scholar, PubMed, and the Cochrane Library were searched using the MeSH terms intimate partner violence, COVID-19, and women. Exclusion criteria were male-partner, elder, and child abuse and studies that targeted specific groups such as cancer, HIV, and substance abuse. Two independent reviewers completed the title, abstract screening, and review of selected articles. Thirteen out of 647 articles met the inclusion criteria. IPV against women increased in nine countries (Spain, United States, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Turkey, Peru, Bangladesh, Czech Republic, and the Democratic Republic of Congo); one country showed no change in gender-based violence among adolescent girls and young women (Kenya); and one study reported a decrease in IPV reporting by victims (United States). Policies made to mitigate the pandemic created unintended consequences that exacerbated risk factors for IPV against women. Lessons learned from COVID-19 must be used to develop policy-level support and response services to mitigate IPV against women amid a pandemic and other human crises.

One of the key challenges to researching psychological acculturation is the immense heterogeneity in theories and measures. These inconsistencies make it difficult to compare past literature, hinder straightforward measurement selections, and stifle theoretical integration. To structure acculturation, we propose to utilize the four basic aspects of human experiences (wanting, feeling, thinking, and doing) as a conceptual framework. We use this framework to build a theory-driven assessment of past theoretical (final  This systematic scoping review indicates that the concept of psychological acculturation can be structured in terms of affect (e.g., feeling at home), behavior (e.g., language use), cognition (e.g., ethnic identification), and desire (e.g., independence wish). We find that the framework is useful in structuring past research and helps with new predictions and interventions. We, for example, find a crucial disconnect between theory and practice, which will need to be resolved in the future.

Biomaterials research output has experienced an exponential increase over the last three decades. The majority of research is published in the form of scientific articles and is therefore available as unstructured text, making it a challenging input for computational processing. Computational tools are becoming essential to overcome this information overload. Among them, text mining systems present an attractive option for the automated extraction of information from text documents into structured datasets. This work presents the first automated system for biomaterial related information extraction from the National Library of Medicine's premier bibliographic database (MEDLINE) research abstracts into a searchable database. The system is a text mining pipeline that periodically retrieves abstracts from PubMed and identifies research and clinical studies of biomaterials. Thereafter, the pipeline identifies sixteen concept types of interest in the abstract using the Biomaterials Annotator, a tool for biomaterials Named Entity Recognition (NER). These concepts of interest, along with the abstract and relevant metadata are then deposited in DEBBIE, the Database of Experimental Biomaterials and their Biological Effect. DEBBIE is accessible through a web application that provides keyword searches and displays results in an intuitive and meaningful manner, aiming to facilitate an efficient mapping and organization of biomaterials information.

Presenting at professional and scientific conferences can be an important part of an individual's career advancement, especially for researchers communicating scientific findings, and can signal expertise and leadership. Generally, women presenting at conferences are underrepresented in various science disciplines. We aimed to evaluate the gender of presenters at research-oriented chiropractic conferences from 2010 to 2019. We investigated the gender of presenters at conferences hosted by chiropractic organisations from 2010 to 2019 that utilised an abstract submission process. Gender classification was performed by two independent reviewers. The gender distribution of presenters over the ten-year period was analysed with linear regression. The association of conference factors with the gender distribution of presenters was also assessed with linear regression, including the gender of organising committees and abstract peer reviewers, and the geographic region where the conference was hosted. From 39 conferences, we identified 4,340 unique presentations. Women gave 1,528 (35%) of the presentations. No presenters were classified as gender diverse. Overall, the proportion of women presenters was 30% in 2010 and 42% in 2019, with linear regression demonstrating a 1% increase in women presenting per year (95% CI = 0.4-1.6%). Invited/keynote speakers had the lowest proportion of women (21%) and the most stagnant trajectory over time. The gender of conference organisers and abstract peer reviewers were not significantly associated with the gender of presenters. Oceanic conferences had a lower proportion of women presenting compared to North America (27% vs. 36%). Overall, women gave approximately one-third of presentations at the included conferences, which gradually increased from 2010 to 2019. However, the disparity widens for the most prestigious class of keynote/invited presenters. We make several recommendations to support the goal of gender equity, including monitoring and reporting on gender diversity at future conferences.

There are increased calls to address psychosocial needs among individuals with classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). However, cross-cultural disparities exist in treatment practices and psychosocial outcomes that impact the generalizability of evidence-based recommendations. To date, this disparity has not been quantified. The present scoping review uses a dual approach to contrast rates of CAH diagnosis with CAH psychosocial research rates across countries. Six electronic database searches were conducted for: (1) CAH incidence/birth/prevalence rates; and (2) psychosocial research with affected individuals and their families. Two authors reviewed each abstract for inclusion criteria. Sixty-eight and 93 full-text articles, respectively, were evaluated for incidence and country. The countries/regions with the highest reported CAH rates are Thailand, Ghana, and India. Those with the greatest portion of psychosocial publications are the USA, Germany, and the UK. A discrepancy exists between those countries with the highest CAH rates and those publishing psychosocial research. Specifically, increased rates of CAH are seen in non-Western countries/regions, whereas most psychosocial research arises out of Western Europe and the USA. Due to cultural differences between these regions, increased global collaboration is needed to both inform psychosocial research and translate findings in ways that are representative worldwide.

In the age of digitalization and big data, personal health information is a key resource for health care and clinical research. This study aimed to analyze the determinants and describe the measurement of the willingness to disclose personal health information. The study conducted a systematic review of articles assessing willingness to share personal health information as a primary or secondary outcome. The review followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis protocol. English and Italian peer-reviewed research articles were included with no restrictions for publication years. Findings were narratively synthesized. The search strategy found 1,087 papers, 89 of which passed the screening for title and abstract and the full-text assessment. No validated measurement tool has been developed for willingness to share personal health information. The reviewed papers measured it through surveys, interviews, and questionnaires, which were mutually incomparable. The secondary use of data was the most important determinant of willingness to share, whereas clinical and socioeconomic variables had a slight effect. The main concern discouraging data sharing was privacy, although good data anonymization and the high perceived benefits of sharing may overcome this issue.

Advance Care Planning (ACP) helps people discuss personal values, goals and priorities regarding future care with family and professionals. It can support care coordination and guide decision-making as health deteriorates. However, uptake remains low internationally. Poor communication and information due to Covid-19 pressures exacerbated public and professional criticism and concerns. Recent recommendations highlight the importance of understanding and addressing public perceptions about ACP combined with person-centred approaches to ACP conversations. To explore public perceptions of ACP to inform increased public engagement and empowerment. Joanna Briggs Institute methodology was applied in a rapid scoping review. Three databases (Embase, MEDLINE, APA PsycInfo) were searched for English language reviews and primary or secondary research studies from 2015 to 2021. Following title and abstract review, two researchers screened full-text articles and performed data extraction independently using Covidence. Charted data were analysed for themes and subthemes starting with two recent published reviews. Emerging findings were added and data synthesis reviewed by the research team, including public-patient representatives, to achieve consensus. Of 336 studies, 20 included reviews and research papers represented diverse public views, situations and contexts. Studies found poor public knowledge of ACP and widespread perceptions of confusing or accessible information. Multiple reports described little personal relevance, perceived risks of emotional distress, fears, mistrust and misconceptions about the purpose and scope of ACP. Studies identified public concerns stemming from reluctance to discuss death and dying despite this being just one aspect of ACP. Research with minority communities and marginalised groups found intensified concerns. Some studies cited people who valued maintaining autonomy by expressing their goals and preferences. Studies reviewed found many members of the public had negative or unclear perceptions of ACP. Improved knowledge and understanding appeared to influence perceptions of ACP but were not considered sufficient to change behaviours. The research provided valuable insights from members of the public that could inform current professional and societal debates about the future of ACP. Findings point to a need for novel approaches to ACP public information and involvement whilst bearing in mind societal norms, diverse cultures and contexts.

Social isolation and connectedness are social determinants of health that have demonstrated effects on cancer-related outcomes. These constructs have been systematically evaluated among pediatric and older adult cancer populations. In this review, the authors evaluated the prevalence, correlates, and psychosocial implications of social isolation and connectedness among young adult (YA) cancer survivors aged 18-39 years. Peer-reviewed articles published in English before June 2021 were identified from database searches and included articles' reference lists according to PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines. Included articles described studies that assessed social isolation and/or connectedness among YA cancer survivors. In total, 5094 unique records were identified; 4143 were excluded after title/abstract screening, and 907 were excluded after full-text review. Forty-four articles were included. Few studies used validated measures or directly assessed social isolation or connectedness. Social isolation was similarly prevalent among YAs and older cancer survivors and noncancer populations. Demographic, clinical, and behavioral risk and protective factors for social isolation were identified. Social isolation was related to worse psychological well-being, whereas social connectedness was often, but not always, related to better psychological well-being. This growing literature underscores the relevance of social isolation and connectedness as important health determinants among YA cancer survivors. The identified risk and protective factors can identify YAs who especially may benefit from screening for social isolation. Future studies are needed that directly, reliably, and validly evaluate social isolation and connectedness to inform the development of interventions to decrease isolation and increase connectedness.

The objective of this review was to collate and summarize the current literature on what is known about organ donation following medical assistance in dying (MAiD). For this second part of a 2-part scoping review, the focus is on the existing procedures and processes for organ donation following MAiD. Organ donation following MAiD is a novel and contentious issue worldwide. To give direction for future research and initiatives, a comprehensive understanding of the available evidence of existing procedures and processes for organ donation following MAiD is needed. For this review, the population of interest included all individuals who underwent organ donation following MAiD; the concept was defined as procedures and processes involved in organ donation after MAiD; and the context was reports of organ donation following MAiD at home or in any health care setting worldwide. We considered quantitative and qualitative studies, text and opinion papers, gray literature, and unpublished material provided by stakeholders. This scoping review was conducted in line with JBI methodology. Published studies were retrieved from MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase (Ovid), CINAHL (EBSCOhost), PsycINFO (Ovid), Web of Science Core Collection, and Academic Search Complete (EBSCOhost). Gray and unpublished literature included reports from websites and organ donation organizations in Canada, Belgium, and The Netherlands. Two independent reviewers screened all reports (both title and abstract, and full text) against the predetermined inclusion criteria, extracted data, and completed a content analysis. Any disagreements between the 2 reviewers were resolved through discussion or with another reviewer. We included 121 documents across parts I and II, and we report on 107 documents in this second part. The majority of the 107 documents were discussion papers, published in English, and in Canada from 2019 to 2021. In the content analysis, we identified 5 major categories regarding existing procedures and processes of organ donation following MAiD: i) clinical pathways for organ donation following MAiD; ii) organ donation following MAiD and the donor; iii) clinical practice tools for organ donation following MAiD; iv) education and support for health care providers involved in organ donation following MAiD; and v) health care providers' roles and perceptions during organ donation following MAiD. Findings from this review can be used to provide support and guidance for improvements in procedures and processes, as well as a rich resource for countries currently planning to establish programs for organ donation after MAiD.

Research related to neonatal pain management has received increasing attention in recent years. Effective pain management contributes to the maintenance of the healthy physical and mental growth of the newborn. To better understand this research topic, we analyzed the current state of development in this field over the past thirteen years by bibliometric analysis and provide directions for future research. Original articles were collected from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) between January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2022, the title and abstract clearly stating 'neonatal pain management' or its alternative search keywords. CiteSpace, VOSviewer, and the WoS analysis tool were used to analyze and present the data. A total of 967 articles met the inclusion criteria. Significant growth of the number of publications increased roughly fourfold from 2010 to 2022. Overall, the United States and Canada were the highest contributors to neonatal pain management research. Weak cooperation was observed in international research (developing and developed countries) and cross-institutional cooperation. Neonatal pain-related research was the most common focus. Pain education and interventions for parents and medical personnel have also received increasing attention recently. The current study revealed that research in terms of publications on neonatal pain management has rapidly increased for more than the past ten years. Developed countries, especially the United States and Canada, were more concerned with this topic than developing countries. More international research and cross-institutional cooperation are required to promote the development of neonatal pain medicine in the future.

The objective of this review was to collate and summarize the current literature on what is known about organ donation following medical assistance in dying (MAiD). Additionally, for this first part of a 2-part scoping review, the focus is on legal and ethical considerations regarding organ donation following MAiD. Organ donation following MAiD is a relatively new procedure that has sparked much debate and discussion. A comprehensive investigation into the legal and ethical aspects related to organ donation following MAiD is needed to inform the development of safe and ethical practices. In this review, we included documents that investigated legal and/or ethical issues related to individuals who underwent organ donation following MAiD in any setting (eg, hospital or home) worldwide. We considered quantitative and qualitative studies, text and opinion papers, gray literature, and unpublished material provided by stakeholders. This scoping review followed JBI methodology. Published studies were retrieved from databases, including MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase (Ovid), CINAHL (EBSCOhost), PsycINFO (Ovid), Web of Science Core Collection, and Academic Search Complete (EBSCOhost). Gray and unpublished literature included reports from organ donation organizations in Canada, The Netherlands, and Belgium. Two independent reviewers screened all reports (both by title and abstract and by full text) against the inclusion criteria, extracted data, and completed a content analysis. Disagreements between the 2 reviewers were resolved through discussions among the reviewers and the lead reviewer. We included 121 documents for parts I and II of our scoping review, 89 of which are included in part I. The majority of the 89 documents were discussion papers published in English and in Canada from 2019 to 2021. In the content analysis, we identified 4 major categories regarding ethical and legal aspects of organ donation following MAiD: i) legal definitions, legislation, and guidelines; ii) ethics, dilemmas, and consensus; iii) consent and objection; and iv) public perceptions. We identified the main legislation regulating the practices of organ donation following MAiD in countries where both procedures are permitted, the many ethical debates surrounding this topic (eg, eligibility criteria for organ donation and MAiD, disclosure of donors' and recipients' information, directed organ donation, death determination in organ donation following MAiD, ethical safeguards for organ donation following MAiD), as well as the public perceptions of this process. Organ donation following MAiD has raised many legal and ethical concerns regarding establishing safeguards to protect patients and families. Despite the ongoing debates around the risks and benefits of this combined procedure, when patients who request MAiD want to donate their organs, this option can help fulfill their last wishes and diminish their suffering, which should be the main reasons to offer organ donation following MAiD.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Young-onset dementia (YOD) refers to a phenomenon in which dementia symptoms appear under age 65. Diagnosing YOD is difficult and its progression is fast. Furthermore, it limits the socio-economic careers of people living with YOD, regardless of their needs. People living with YOD and their carers have unstable occupational status and their dependents also have to face a high burden of care. They claim that existing social support for dementia is limited to the elderly and is not suitable for them. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The characteristics of non-pharmacological intervention studies for people living with YOD and/or their carers so far, and an analysis of the needs supported via the applied interventions. A theoretical basis and direction for the interventions to be studied in the future. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Research and intervention development should focus more on the needs of people living with YOD. In addition, it is necessary to understand and reflect on carers who directly care for people living with YOD. A multidisciplinary programme that supports wide area of the needs should be developed. INTRODUCTION: Young-onset dementia (YOD) is a highly influential disease that exerts force on the normal life of those who still have to continue social life. Research has been lacking in spite of its seriousness, which accounts for about 9% of all dementia cases. This study aimed to examine non-pharmacological interventions for people living with YOD and/or their carers, and to analyse how those interventions support their needs. A scoping review methodology was utilized to search the studies examining interventions for people living with YOD and/or their carers, and in English or Korean. The information was extracted, summarized and analysed in CANE categories. Sixteen studies were included in the review. Five types of interventions were drawn. 'Memory' was the most covered part of the needs by the interventions. This study found that interventions currently do not match the needs of people living with YOD and their carers. Multidisciplinary research would be eligible to cover the subjects' wide range of the needs as much as possible. We suggest the development of a specialized needs assessment tool and specialized interventions for people living with young-onset dementia and their carers.

Insights from biomedical citation networks can be used to identify promising avenues for accelerating research and its downstream bench-to-bedside translation. Citation analysis generally assumes that each citation documents substantive knowledge transfer that informed the conception, design, or execution of the main experiments. Citations may exist for other reasons. In this paper, we take advantage of late-stage citations added during peer review because these are less likely to represent substantive knowledge flow. Using a large, comprehensive feature set of open access data, we train a predictive model to identify late-stage citations. The model relies only on the title, abstract, and citations to previous articles but not the full-text or future citations patterns, making it suitable for publications as soon as they are released, or those behind a paywall (the vast majority). We find that high prediction scores identify late-stage citations that were likely added during the peer review process as well as those more likely to be rhetorical, such as journal self-citations added during review. Our model conversely gives low prediction scores to early-stage citations and citation classes that are known to represent substantive knowledge transfer. Using this model, we find that US federally funded biomedical research publications represent 30% of the predicted early-stage (and more likely to be substantive) knowledge transfer from basic studies to clinical research, even though these comprise only 10% of the literature. This is a threefold overrepresentation in this important type of knowledge flow.

This review aimed to identify and synthesize the existing literature on the effects of socioeconomic status (SES) changes on health. A review was conducted using Medline, Cochrane library, and CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature). All longitudinal or cross-sectional studies that examined links between changes to SES across different time periods and measured health outcomes were included. Screening was conducted using select inclusion and exclusion criteria in order of title, abstract, and full text. Two independent reviewers assessed the quality of the full text articles using the Downs and Black checklist. Our literature search led to 2719 peer reviewed articles, 2639 of which were title screened after duplicates were removed. A total of 117 abstracts and 12 full text articles were screened. Overall, findings from 11 articles form the basis of this review. Eight different types of measures of changes to SES were identified. These include education, occupation, economic security, income sufficiency, home ownership, car ownership, health insurance, and marital status. Assessed outcomes included measures related to physical health, cardiovascular disease, mental health, and oral health. A large proportion of studies found that an SES change impacts health. Evidence suggests that those with consistently high SES have the best health outcomes, followed by those who report their SES change from low to high (upward social mobility). Evidence on the relative health effects for those who report their SES change from high to low (downward social mobility) compared to those who report consistently low SES is inconsistent. Current evidence suggests that an SES change has an impact on an individual's health. More research on the effects of SES changes on health outcomes in adulthood is needed and can inform various areas of health research including health resiliency and development. Future studies should focus on individual SES indicators and their effects on health outcomes at multiple points throughout life.

Intervention-related demands: Criteria for an operating room-specific patient classification. A qualitative focus group study 

Few longitudinal studies have evaluated the impact of chronic kidney disease (CKD) duration on health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The study's aim was to determine how HRQOL changes over time in childhood CKD. Study participants were children in the chronic kidney disease in children (CKiD) cohort who completed the pediatric quality of life inventory (PedsQL) on three or more occasions over the course of two or more years. Generalized gamma (GG) mixed-effects models were applied to assess the effect of CKD duration on HRQOL while controlling for selected covariates. A total of 692 children (median age = 11.2) with a median of 8.3 years duration of CKD were evaluated. All subjects had a GFR greater than 15 ml/min/1.73 m Longer duration of the disease is associated with improved HRQOL on child self-report scales; however, parent-proxy results were less likely to demonstrate any significant change over time. This divergence could be due to greater optimism and accommodation of CKD in children. Clinicians can use these data to better understand the needs of pediatric CKD patients. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Environmental factors in the operating room during cesarean sections are likely important for both women/birthing people and their babies but there is currently a lack of rigorous literature about their evaluation. The principal aim of this study was to systematically examine studies published on the physical environment in the obstetrical operating room during c-sections and its impact on mother and neonate outcomes. The secondary objective was to identify the sensors used to investigate the operating room environment during cesarean sections. In this literature review, we searched MEDLINE a database using the following keywords: Cesarean section AND (operating room environment OR Noise OR Music OR Video recording OR Light level OR Gentle OR Temperature OR Motion Data). Eligible studies had to be published in English or French within the past 10 years and had to investigate the operating room environment during cesarean sections in women. For each study we reported which aspects of the physical environment were investigated in the OR (i.e., noise, music, movement, light or temperature) and the involved sensors. Of a total of 105 studies screened, we selected 8 articles from title and abstract in PubMed. This small number shows that the field is poorly investigated. The most evaluated environment factors to date are operating room noise and temperature, and the presence of music. Few studies used advanced sensors in the operating room to evaluate environmental factors in a more nuanced and complete way. Two studies concern the sound level, four concern music, one concerns temperature and one analyzed the number of entrances/exits into the OR. No study analyzed light level or more fine-grained movement data. Main findings include increase of noise and motion at specific time-points, for example during delivery or anaesthesia; the positive impact of music on parents and staff alike; and that a warmer theatre is better for babies but more uncomfortable for surgeons.

This is a 10-year review of The Journal of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery (JTACS) literature related to health care disparities, health care inequities, and patient outcomes. A retrospective review of articles published in JTACS between January 1, 2013, and July 15, 2022, was performed. Articles screened included both adult and pediatric trauma populations. Included articles focused on patient populations related to trauma, surgical critical care, and emergency general surgery. Of the 4,178 articles reviewed, 74 met the inclusion criteria. Health care disparities related to gender (n = 10), race/ethnicity (n = 12), age (n = 14), income status (n = 6), health literacy (n = 6), location and access to care (n = 23), and insurance status (n = 13) were described. Studies published on disparities peaked in 2016 and 2022 with 13 and 15 studies respectively but dropped to one study in 2017. Studies demonstrated a significant increase in mortality for patients in rural geographical regions and in patients without health insurance and a decrease in patients who were treated at a trauma center. Gender disparities resulted in variable mortality rates and studied factors, including traumatic brain injury mortality and severity, venous thromboembolism, ventilator-associated pneumonia, firearm homicide, and intimate partner violence. Under-represented race/ethnicity was associated with variable mortality rates, with one study demonstrating increased mortality risk and three finding no association between race/ethnicity and mortality. Disparities in health literacy resulted in decreased discharge compliance and worse long-term functional outcomes. Studies on disparities in JTACS over the last decade primarily focused on location and access to health care, age, insurance status, and race, with a specific emphasis on mortality. This review highlights the areas in need of further research and funding in the Journal of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery regarding health care disparities in trauma aimed at interventions to reduce disparities in patient care, ensure equitable care, and inform future approaches targeting health care disparities. Systematic Review; Level IV.

To determine whether individuals in the United States who speak languages other than English (LOE) are excluded from federally funded pediatric clinical trials and whether such trials adhere to the National Institutes of Health policy regarding inclusion of members of minority groups. Using ClinicalTrials.gov, we identified all completed, federally funded, US-based trials inclusive of children ≤17 and focused on one of 4 common chronic childhood conditions (asthma, mental health, obesity, and dental caries) as of June 18, 2019. We reviewed ClinicalTrials.gov online content, as well as published manuscripts linked to ClinicalTrials.gov entries, to abstract information about language-related exclusion criteria. Trials were deemed to exclude LOE participants/caregivers if explicit statements regarding exclusion were identified in the study protocol or published manuscript. Of total, 189 trials met inclusion criteria. Two-thirds (67%) did not address multilingual enrollment. Of the 62 trials that did, 82% excluded LOE individuals. No trials addressed the enrollment of non-English, non-Spanish-speaking individuals. In 93 trials with nonmissing data on ethnicity, Latino individuals comprised 31% of participants in trials that included LOE individuals and 14% of participants in trials that excluded LOE individuals. Federally funded pediatric trials in the United States do not adequately address multilingual enrollment, a seeming violation of federal and contractual requirements for accommodation of language barriers by entities receiving federal funding.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) can infect individuals at any age, including infants, who may contract it from infected mothers (congenital CMV [cCMV]). Whereas CMV infection is typically asymptomatic or causes mild illness in healthy individuals, infection can result in severe outcomes in immunocompromised individuals and in infants with cCMV. This systematic review aims to characterize the economic impact of CMV and cCMV infections. Medline, Embase, and LILACS databases were searched for publications reporting the economic impact of cCMV and CMV infections across all age groups. Manuscripts published between 2010 and 2020 from Australia, Latin America, Canada, Europe, Israel, Japan, the United States, and global (international, worldwide) studies were included; congress materials were excluded. Outcomes of interest included cCMV- and CMV-attributable direct costs/charges, resource utilization, and indirect/societal costs. Of 751 records identified, 518 were excluded based on duplication, population, outcome, study design, or country. Overall, 55 articles were eligible for full-text review; 25 were further excluded due to population, outcome, study design, or congress abstract. Two publications were additionally identified, resulting in economic impact data compiled from 32 publications. Of these, 24 publications reported cost studies of cCMV or CMV, including evaluation of direct costs/charges, healthcare resource utilization, and indirect/societal costs, and 7 publications reported economic evaluations of interventions. The populations, methods and outcomes used across these studies varied widely. CMV and cCMV infections impose a considerable economic impact on different countries, populations, and outcomes. There are substantial evidence gaps where further research is warranted.

Women are experiencing growing rates of incarceration at twice the pace of that for men. Additionally, one-third will be older than 55 years of age by the end of the decade. Women who are incarcerated experience a higher prevalence of gynecologic malignancies and present with higher stage disease, which may be contributing to the greater mortality from cancer than the age-adjusted US population. Limited access to guideline-recommended screening and prevention and resource limitations across correctional facilities may result in gynecologic cancer disparities. Reasons for delayed gynecologic cancer care in prisons remain underexplored. Therefore, we sought to identify contributors to delayed gynecologic cancer care among women experiencing incarceration. Women at a single tertiary center in the Southeastern U.S. who were incarcerated and were diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer during 2014-2021 were identified in the electronic medical record. Note text was extracted and contributors to delay were identified and categorized using the RADaR method. Descriptive statistics were used to assess quantitative data. 14 patients were identified with a total of 14,879 text excerpts. Data reduction was performed to identify excerpts that were relevant to the central research question resulting in 175 relevant note excerpts. Delays prior to the tertiary care visit included patient and institutional contributors. Delays during transition from the tertiary center to prison included discharge planning and loss to follow-up during/after incarceration. Transportation, authorization, and restraints were concrete contributors. Abstract contributors included communication, and the patient's emotional experience. We identify myriad contributors to delayed or fractured gynecologic cancer care in women experiencing incarceration. The impact of these issues warrants further study and intervention to improve care.

To map the experience and view of scientists in radiology on the peer review process. A survey with 12 closed-ended questions and 5 conditional sub-questions was conducted among corresponding authors who published in general radiology journals. 244 corresponding authors participated. In considering a peer review invitation, most respondents found the topic and the availability of time very important (62.1% [144/132] and 57.8% [134/232], respectively), the quality of the abstract, the prestige/impact factor of the journal, and the sense of professional duty important (43.7% [101/231], 42.2% [98/232], and 53.9% [125/232], respectively), and were indifferent about a reward (35.3% [82/232]). However, 61.1% (143/234) believed that a reviewer should be rewarded. Direct financial compensation (27.6% [42/152]), discounted fees for society memberships, conventions, and/or journal subscriptions (24.3% [37/152]), and Continuing Medical Education credits (23.0% [35/152]) were the most frequently desired rewards. 73.4% (179/244) of respondents never received formal peer review training, of whom 31.2% (54/173) would like to, particularly less experienced researchers (Chi-Square P = 0.001). The median reported review time per article was 2.5 h. 75.2% (176/234) of respondents found it acceptable that a manuscript is rejected by an editor without formal peer review. The double-blinded peer review model was preferred by most respondents (42.3% [99/234]). A median of 6 weeks was considered the maximum acceptable time from manuscript submission to initial decision by a journal. Publishers and journal editors may use the experiences and views of authors that were provided in this survey to shape the peer review process.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is evidence that social isolation and loneliness is more prevalent in people living with mental illness than in the general population. People living with mental illness frequently experience stigma, discrimination, rejection, repeated psychiatric admissions, low self-esteem, low self-efficacy, and increased symptoms of paranoia, depression, and anxiety. There is evidence of common interventions that can be used to improve loneliness and social isolation such as psychosocial skills training and cognitive group therapy. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper offers a comprehensive assessment of the evidence between mental illness, loneliness, and recovery. The results suggest that people living with mental illness experience elevated levels of social isolation and loneliness leading to poor recovery and quality of life. Social deprivation, social integration and romantic loneliness are related to loneliness, poor recovery, and reduced quality of life. A sense of belonging, ability to trust and hope are important aspects of improved loneliness, quality of life and recovery. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The existing culture in mental health nursing practice needs to be examined to address loneliness in people living with mental illness and its impact on recovery. Existing tools to research loneliness do not consider dimensions in loneliness experience as reflected in the literature. Practice needs to demonstrate an integrated approach to recovery, optimal service delivery and augmentation of evidence-based clinical practice to improve individual's loneliness, social circumstances, and relationships. Practice needs to demonstrate nursing knowledge in caring for people living with mental illness experiencing loneliness. Further longitudinal research is required to clearly understand the relationship between loneliness, mental illness, and recovery. INTRODUCTION: To our knowledge, there are no previous reviews on the impact of loneliness experienced by people aged 18-65, who are living with mental illness and their recovery experience. To explore the experience and impact of loneliness in people living with mental illness during recovery. An integrative review. A total of 17 papers met the inclusion criteria. The search was conducted using four electronic databases: MEDLINE, CINAHL, Scopus and PsycINFO. Across these 17 papers, participants were most commonly, diagnosed with schizophrenia or psychotic disorders and recruited from community mental health services. The review revealed loneliness to be substantial in people living with mental illness and that loneliness affected their recovery, and their quality of life. The review identified many factors that contribute to loneliness including unemployment, financial strain, social deprivation, group housing, internalized stigma and mental illness symptoms. Individual factors such as social/community integration and social network size as well as an inability to trust, a sense of not belonging, hopelessness and lack of romance were also evident. Interventions targeting social functioning skills and social connectedness were found to improve social isolation and loneliness. It is vital for mental health nursing practice to employ an approach integrating physical health as well as social recovery needs, optimal service delivery and augmentation of evidence-based clinical practice to improve loneliness, recovery, and quality of life.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, national triage guidelines were developed to address the anticipated shortage of life-saving resources, should ICU capacities be overloaded. Rationing and triage imply that in addition to individual patient interests, interests of population health have to be integrated. The transfer of theoretical and empirical knowledge into feasible and useful practice models and their implementation in clinical settings need to be improved. This paper analyzes how triage protocols could translate abstract theories of distributive justice into concrete material and procedural criteria for rationing intensive care resources during a pandemic. We reconstruct the development and implementation of a rationing protocol at a German university hospital: describing the ethical challenge of triage, clarifying the aspirational norms, and summarizing specific norms of fair triage and allocation for developing an institutional policy and practice model and implementing it. We reflect on how critical topics are seen by clinicians and what helped manage the perceived burdens of the triage dilemma. We analyze what can be learned from this debate regarding the difficult issues around triage protocols and their potential implementation into clinical settings. Analyzing the ought-to-is gap of triage, integrating abstract ethical principles into practical concepts, and evaluating those should clarify the benefits and risks of different allocation options. We seek to inform debates on triage concepts and policies to ensure the best possible treatment and fair allocation of resources as well as to help protect patients and professionals in worst-case scenarios.

Steroid-sensitive nephrotic syndrome (SSNS) is associated with a relapsing-remitting course that can be stressful for parents. As little is known of parental distress at the first onset of SSNS, this study aims to describe parental distress and everyday problems in mothers and fathers of a child with newly diagnosed SSNS participating in a randomized controlled trial of levamisole added to corticosteroids. To assess distress, the Distress Thermometer for Parents (DT-P) was used, which includes questions on distress (thermometer score 0-10, ≥ 4 "clinical distress") and presence of everyday problems in six domains: practical, social, emotional, physical, cognitive, and parenting. The DT-P was completed 4 weeks after the onset of SSNS. Total sum and individual items of everyday problems were compared with reference data from mothers and fathers of the Dutch general population. There was no difference in clinically elevated parental distress between SSNS mothers (n = 37) and fathers (n = 25) and reference parents. Compared to reference fathers, fathers of a child with SSNS scored significantly higher on emotional problems (P = 0.030), while mothers experienced more parenting problems (P = 0.002). Regression analyses showed that lower parental age and having a girl with SSNS were significantly associated with more practical problems and higher distress thermometer scores, respectively. Four weeks after onset, SSNS mothers and fathers experience equal distress as reference parents. However, both parents endorsed significantly more everyday problems. Therefore, monitoring parental distress, even in the first weeks of the disease, could contribute to timely interventions and prevent worsening of problems. Dutch Trial Register ( https://onderzoekmetmensen.nl/en/trial/27331 ). A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

This study aimed to update the scientific knowledge concerning the relationship between discrimination, stigma and self-concept. A review was conducted and allowed to include 15 peer-reviewed articles for qualitative analysis, consisting of 13 unique samples (n=2830; Mage=37.6). The search was conducted on Pubmed and PsychInfo following this research protocol: "de stigmatization" ([Title/Abstract] or "destigmatization" [Title/Abstract] or "self-stigma" [Title/Abstract] or "Perceived stigma" [Title/Abstract] or "anticipated discrimination" [Title/Abstract] or "experienced discrimination" [Title/Abstract]) and (identi*[Title] or "self-concept" [Title]). The search resulted in 43 articles, plus three articles identified from other sources. Thirty-one articles were excluded because they did not align with the aim of the review. Among the 15 articles included, there were 11 quantitative studies, two qualitative studies, one literature review and one theoretical article. The stigma was related to a mental disorder (n=8), a physiological or ethnic difference (n=5) or sexual orientation and gender identity (n=2). Among the 11 quantitative studies based on unique samples, all included both males and females (n=2616; Mage=36.7; 61.1% of women). Four studies established a significant impact of perceived stigma on social identity. This impact was negative when there was at least one other parallel social identity perceived favorably by the individual, and positive otherwise. In two studies, this impact was moderated by the importance of the stigmatized social identity in the self-concept. In one study, social identity was correlated to psychological distress. The sign, positive or negative, of this correlation depended on self-stigma. When self-stigma was high (i.e., self-concept is strongly perceived through the prism of negative stereotypes associated with the social identity), then social identity was positively associated with psychological distress. Otherwise, the sign of this association was negative. In one study, four distinct variables were predictors of suicidal ideation: experienced discrimination, perceived stigma, anticipated discrimination and self-stigma. Experienced discrimination predicted suicidal ideation through anticipatory discrimination and self-stigma; and perceived stigma predicted suicidal ideation through anticipated discrimination. Self-stigma and anticipatory discrimination predicted suicidal ideation at the same level. The results suggest that a key variable to address in order to reduce the negative consequences of discrimination and stigmatization is self-stigma, i.e., the fact of conceiving the self-concept through the filter of the negative stereotypes associated with the characteristic perceived as discriminated. The altered self-concept should therefore be a main transnosographic diagnostic and therapeutic target. An easy-to-use proxy to detect the altered self-concept is the propensity to feel the emotion of shame, which is correlated to self-stigma.

Diversity enriches the educational experience by improving intellectual engagement, self-motivation, citizenship, cultural engagement, and academic skills like critical thinking, problem-solving, and writing for students of all races. Faculty role models from similar backgrounds are essential for students from traditionally underrepresented groups as it sends a powerful message of support, belonging, and the confidence to pursue higher education. However, in the biomedical sciences, the percentage of historically underrepresented tenure-track faculty is far lower than that of their white colleagues. For this to change, a strong strategic plan and commitment from the university are imperative. This scoping review will assess the size and scope of available peer-reviewed research literature on diversity programs that aim to increase the recruitment and retention of biomedical sciences research faculty and are implemented and evaluated at American Universities. The information provided in this scoping review will help universities identify novel, successful diversity-based approaches for recruiting and retaining biomedical science faculty that might suit their own unique academic and geographic needs and be incorporated into their diversity initiatives and policies. The review follows the Population-Concept-Context methodology for Joanna Briggs Institution Scoping Reviews. Relevant peer-reviewed studies published in English between June 1, 2012, to June 1, 2022, will be identified from the following electronic databases; MEDLINE (PubMed), Scopus (Elsevier), EMBASE (Elsevier), CINAHL (EBSCO), and ERIC (EBSCO). The search strings using the key variables "biomedical research faculty," "recruitment/retention," "diversity/ minority/ underrepresented, and "mentoring" will be conducted using Boolean logic. Two independent reviewers will conduct all title and abstract screening, followed by a full article screening and data extraction. Due to the possible heterogeneity of the studies, we hope to use either a narrative analysis and/or descriptive figures/tables to depict the results.

Prehabilitation offers patients the opportunity to actively participate in their perioperative care by preparing themselves for their upcoming surgery. Experiencing barriers may lead to non-participation, which can result in a reduced functional capacity, delayed post-operative recovery and higher healthcare costs. Insight in the barriers and facilitators to participation in prehabilitation can inform further development and implementation of prehabilitation. The aim of this review was to identify patient-experienced barriers and facilitators for participation in prehabilitation. For this mixed methods systematic review, articles were searched in PubMed, EMBASE and CINAHL. Articles were eligible for inclusion if they contained data on patient-reported barriers and facilitators to participation in prehabilitation in adults undergoing major surgery. Following database search, and title and abstract screening, full text articles were screened for eligibility and quality was assessed using the Mixed Method Appraisal Tool. Relevant data from the included studies were extracted, coded and categorized into themes, using an inductive approach. Based on these themes, the Capability, Opportunity, Motivation, Behaviour (COM-B) model was chosen to classify the identified themes. Three quantitative, 14 qualitative and 6 mixed methods studies, published between 2007 and 2022, were included in this review. A multitude of factors were identified across the different COM-B components. Barriers included lack of knowledge of the benefits of prehabilitation and not prioritizing prehabilitation over other commitments (psychological capability), physical symptoms and comorbidities (physical capability), lack of time and limited financial capacity (physical opportunity), lack of social support (social opportunity), anxiety and stress (automatic motivation) and previous experiences and feeling too fit for prehabilitation (reflective motivation). Facilitators included knowledge of the benefits of prehabilitation (psychological capability), having access to resources (physical opportunity), social support and encouragement by a health care professional (social support), feeling a sense of control (automatic motivation) and beliefs in own abilities (reflective motivation). A large number of barriers and facilitators, influencing participation in prehabilitation, were found across all six COM-B components. To reach all patients and to tailor prehabilitation to the patient's needs and preferences, it is important to take into account patients' capability, opportunity and motivation. Registered in PROSPERO (CRD42021250273) on May 18th, 2021.

Terror management theory (TMT) posits that people manage death-related anxiety through the meaning provided by their cultural world-views and the sense of personal value provided by self-esteem. While a large body of research has supported the core propositions of TMT, little research has focused on its application to individuals with terminal illness. If TMT can help healthcare providers better understand how belief systems adapt and change in life-threatening illness, and the role they play in managing death-related anxiety, it may provide guidance on how to improve communication around treatments near the end of life. As such, we set out to review the available research articles that focus on describing the relationship between TMT and life-threatening illness. We reviewed PubMed, PsycINFO, Google Scholar, and EMBASE through May 2022 for original research articles focused on TMT and life-threatening illness. Articles were only deemed appropriate for inclusion if direct incorporation of the principles of TMT were made in reference to a population of interest whom had life-threatening illness Results were screened by title and abstract, followed by full review of candidate articles. References were also scanned. Articles were assessed qualitatively. Six relevant and original research articles were published which provide varied levels of support for TMT's application in critical illness, each article detailed evidence of ideological changes consistent with what TMT would predict. Building self-esteem, enhancing the experience of life as meaningful, incorporating spirituality, engaging family members, and caring for patients at home where meaning and self-esteem can be better maintained are strategies supported by the studies and serve as starting points for further research. These articles suggest that applying TMT to life-threatening illness can help identify psychological changes that may effectively minimize the distress from dying. Limitations of this study include a heterogenous group of relevant studies and qualitative assessment.

Increasingly, policymakers and professional organizations support screening for social assets and risks during clinical care. Scant evidence exists on how screening impacts patients, providers, or health systems. To systematically review published literature for evidence of the clinical utility of screening for social determinants of health in clinical obstetric and gynecologic (OBGYN) care. We systematically searched Pubmed (March 2022, 5,302 identified) and identified additional articles using hand sorting (searching articles citing key articles (273 identified) and through bibliography review (20 identified)). We included all articles that measured a quantitative outcome of systematic social determinants of health (SDOH) screening in an OBGYN clinical setting. Each identified citation was reviewed by two independent reviewers at both the title/abstract and full text stages. We identified 19 articles for inclusion and present the results using narrative synthesis. The majority of articles reported on SDOH screening during prenatal care (16/19) and the most common SDOH was intimate partner violence (13/19 studies). Overall, patients had favorable attitudes towards SDOH screening (in 8/9 articles measuring attitudes), and referrals were common following positive screening (range 5.3%-63.6%). Only two articles presented data on the effects of SDOH screening on clinicians and none on health systems. Three articles present data on resolution of social needs, with inconsistent results. Limited evidence exists on the benefits of SDOH screening in OBGYN clinical settings. Innovative studies leveraging existing data collection are needed to expand and improve SDOH screening.

The benefits of the human-animal bond on owners' health and quality of life have been the focus of research in recent decades. However, the results are still inconsistent. Thus, this study aims to investigate whether the presence of a pet, compared to a control group, influences daily physical activity levels and mental health using a meta-analytic method. The PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus databases were searched for all research articles that included pets as an object of study and related mental health and quality of life variables between pet owners and non-owners until April 2022. The PRISMA 2020 checklist was used, and the Downs and Back checklist was used to assess the methodological quality of the studies. Standardized mean differences and 95% confidence intervals were used to assess the difference between a group of pet owners and non-pet owners. An initial search located 11,389 studies, but only 49 studies fulfilled all requirements. Our results indicate that pets have a moderately significant positive effect on the physical activity of owners compared to non-pet owners. Among the moderating variables, the frequency of physical activity showed a highly significant effect, indicating that owners had a higher frequency of physical activity than non-owners. Moreover, our results indicate a significant impact but with a low effect size of pets on owners' mental health when compared to non-pet owners. Pet ownership does not seem to influence owners' mental health, but it does influence their physical activity. Specifically, owners show a higher frequency of physical activity than non-owners.

Emergency ambulance personnel respond to a variety of incidents in the community, including medical, trauma and obstetric emergencies. Family and bystanders present on scene may provide first aid, reassurance, background information or even act as proxy decision-makers. For most people, involvement in any event requiring an emergency ambulance response is a stressful and salient experience. The aim of this scoping review is to identify and synthesise all published, peer-reviewed research describing family and bystanders' experiences of emergency ambulance care. This scoping review included peer-reviewed studies that reported on family or bystander experiences where emergency ambulance services responded. Five databases were searched in May 2022: Medline, CINAHL, Scopus, ProQuest Dissertation & Theses and PsycINFO. After de-duplication and title and abstract screening, 72 articles were reviewed in full by two authors for inclusion. Data analysis was completed using thematic synthesis. Thirty-five articles reporting heterogeneous research designs were included in this review (Qualitative = 21, Quantitative = 2, Mixed methods = 10, Evidence synthesis = 2). Thematic synthesis developed five key themes characterising family member and bystander experiences. In an emergency event, family members and bystanders described chaotic and unreal scenes and emotional extremes of hope and hopelessness. Communication with emergency ambulance personnel played a key role in family member and bystander experience both during and after an emergency event. It is particularly important to family members that they are present during emergencies not just as witnesses but as partners in decision-making. In the event of a death, family and bystanders want access to psychological post-event support. By incorporating patient and family-centred care into practice emergency ambulance personnel can influence the experience of family members and bystanders during emergency ambulance responses. More research is needed to explore the needs of diverse populations, particularly regarding differences in cultural and family paradigms as current research reports the experiences of westernised nuclear family experiences.

Almost half of the world's children experience passive smoking, which is linked to numerous oral health conditions. The aim is to synthesize data on the impact of passive smoking on oral health of infants, preschoolers, and children. A search was conducted across Medline (via EBSCOhost), PubMed, and Scopus up to February 2023. Risk of bias was assessed according to the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS). The initial search produced 1221 records and after removal of duplicates, screening by title and abstract, and full-text assessment, 25 studies were eligible for review and data extraction. The majority of studies (94.4%) found a correlation between passive smoking and increased prevalence of dental caries with three studies suggesting a dose-response relationship. Prenatal passive smoking exposure in 81.8% of studies indicated an increased dental caries experience compared to postnatal exposure. Low parental education, socioeconomic status, dietary habits, oral hygiene, and gender affected the level of environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure and dental caries risk. The results of this systematic review strongly suggest a significant association between dental caries in the deciduous dentition and passive smoking. Early intervention and education on the effects of passive smoking on infants and children will allow for the improvement in oral health outcomes and reduction in smoking-associated systemic conditions. The results justify all health professionals paying more attention to passive smoking when conducting pediatric patient histories, contributing to improved diagnosis and appropriate treatment planning with more suitable follow-up schedules. The evidence from this review that environmental tobacco smoke and passive smoking is a risk factor for oral health conditions, both prenatally and postnatally during early childhood, justifies all health professionals paying more attention to passive smoking when conducting pediatric patient histories. Early intervention and appropriate parental education regarding the effects of secondhand smoke on infants and children will allow for the minimization of dental caries, improvement in oral health outcomes and overall reduction in smoking-associated systemic conditions for the children exposed.

Nursing science has the epistemic advantage of using nursing practice for developing middle-range theories to bridge abstract ideas with clinical research. The theory of the adapting foster family draws upon extant theories of both family systems theory and transition theory while integrating experiences from nursing practice. The new theory provides a framework for improving outcomes for children in foster care through greater placement stability. Theory development incorporated a literature review, concept exploration, statement synthesis, and mathematical theory modeling to elucidate the interaction between concepts and provide insight to the unique fostering experience.

The highly prevalent late-life loneliness, together with its deleterious health impacts, calls for increasing attention to the need for effective interventions targeting on this growing public health problem. With the increasing evidence on interventions for combating loneliness, it is timely to identify their comparative effectiveness. This systematic review, meta-analysis and network meta-analysis was to identify and compare the effects of various non-pharmacological interventions on loneliness in community-dwelling older adults. Systematic search was conducted in nine electronic databases from inception to 30th March 2023 for studies investigating the effects of non-pharmacological interventions on loneliness among community-dwelling older adults. The interventions were categorized according to the nature and purpose of use. Pairwise meta-analysis and network meta-analyses were sequentially performed to identify the effects of each category of interventions and their comparative intervention effectiveness, respectively. Meta-regression was performed to examine any influence of study design and participants' characteristics on the intervention effectiveness. The study protocol was registered at PROSPERO (CRD42022307621). A total of 60 studies with 13,295 participants were included. The interventions were categorized as psychological interventions, social support interventions (by digital and non-digital means), behavioral activation, exercise intervention with and without social engagement, multi-component intervention and health promotion. Pairwise meta-analysis identified the positive effect of psychological interventions (Hedges' g = -2.33; 95%CI [-4.40, -0.25]; Z = -2.20, p = 0.003), non-digital social support interventions (Hedges' g = -0.63; 95%CI [-1.16, -0.10]; Z = 2.33, p = 0.02) and multi-component interventions (Hedges' g = -0.28 95%CI [-0.54, -0.03]; Z = -2.15, p = 0.03) on reducing loneliness. Subgroup analysis provided additional insights: i) social support and exercise interventions which integrated active strategies to optimize the social engagement demonstrated more promising intervention effects; ii) behavioral activation and multicomponent interventions worked better for older adults who were male or reported loneliness, respectively, and iii) counseling-based psychological interventions was more effective than mind-body practice. Network meta-analysis consistently pointed to the greatest therapeutic benefits of psychological interventions, and this was followed by exercise-based interventions, non-digital social support interventions and behavioral activation. Meta-regression further suggested that the therapeutic effects of the tested interventions were independent of the various factors relating to study design and participants' characteristics. This review highlights the more superior effects of psychological interventions in improving loneliness among older adults. Interventions which have an attribute to optimize social dynamic and connectivity may also be effective. Psychological intervention is the best to beat late-life loneliness, but increasing social dynamic and connectivity may add an impact.

The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has impacted parental and child mental health and wellbeing in the UK. This study aimed to explore the experiences of parents of children with rare neurological and neurodevelopmental conditions with a known or suspected genetic cause (neurogenetic) across the first year of the pandemic in the UK. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 11 parents of children with rare neurogenetic conditions. Parents were recruited via opportunity sampling from the CoIN Study, a longitudinal quantitative study exploring the impact of the pandemic on the mental health and wellbeing of families with rare neurogenetic conditions. Interviews were analysed using Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis. Four main themes were identified: (1) "A varied impact on child wellbeing: from detrimental to 'no big drama'"; (2) "Parental mental health and wellbeing: impact, changes, and coping"; (3) "'The world had shut its doors and that was that': care and social services during the pandemic"; and (4) "Time and luck: abstract concepts central to parents' perspectives of how they coped during the pandemic". The majority of parents described experiencing an exacerbation of pre-pandemic challenges due to increased uncertainty and a lack of support, with a minority reporting positive effects of the pandemic on family wellbeing. These findings offer a unique insight into the experiences parents of children with rare neurogenetic conditions across the first year of the pandemic in the UK. They highlight that the experiences of parents were not pandemic-specific, and will continue to be highly relevant in a non-pandemic context. Future support should to be tailored to the needs of families and implemented across diverse future scenarios to promote coping and positive wellbeing.

India has remarkably achieved some level of decline in infant mortality rate and increase in aged person through increase in life expectancy due to improvement on its health care sector but still remain amongst the countries with the highest rate of infant mortality within the Asian countries. Literature on environmental implication remains scarce, and for this we utilised India's data from 1975 to 2020 to research on this topic. Relevant scientific methods (residual Augmented Least Squares - RALS, Engle and Granger - EG, and its newly augmented version - RALS-EG) are adopted in this study. Further, to estimate the long-run elasticities of the regressors, the symmetric analyses, i.e., dynamic ordinary least squares (DOLS) and Engle and Granger causality test techniques, are employed. Findings according to DOLS revealed that renewable energy sources and social (GDP per capita) and public subsidies (general government final consumption expenditure) have lessening effect on infant mortality in India, whilst the private subsidies (gross capital formation), fossil fuels, and carbon dioxide cause an increase in infant mortality in India. This exposes renewable energy source as a mitigating factor in Indian environmental degradation which as well lessen the infant mortality level in India; hence, policy is suggested to be framed on improving renewable energy and health sectors. The graphical presentation of the abstract is done with the diagram below. The graph shows the interactions amongst the selected variables in this study. The impacts of the explanatory variables on the dependent variable are shown with different colours showing positive (green) and negative (red) impacts.

Domesticated animal ownership is an understudied aspect of the human environment that influences mosquito biting behaviour and malaria transmission, and is a key part of national economies and livelihoods in malaria-endemic regions. In this study, we aimed to understand differences in Plasmodium falciparum prevalence by ownership status of common domesticated animals in DR Congo, where 12% of the world's malaria cases occur and anthropophilic Anopheles gambiae vectors predominate. In this cross-sectional study, we used survey data from individuals aged 15-59 years in the most recent (2013-14) DR Congo Demographic and Health Survey and previously performed Plasmodium quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) to estimate P falciparum prevalence differences by household ownership of cattle; chickens; donkeys, horses, or mules; ducks; goats; sheep; and pigs. We used directed acyclic graphs to consider confounding by age, gender, wealth, modern housing, treated bednet use, agricultural land ownership, province, and rural location. Of 17 701 participants who had qPCR results and covariate data, 8917 (50·4%) of whom owned a domesticated animal, we observed large differences in malaria prevalence across types of animals owned in both crude and adjusted models. Household chicken ownership was associated with 3·9 (95% CI 0·6 to 7·1) more P falciparum infections per 100 people, whereas cattle ownership was associated with 9·6 (-15·8 to -3·5) fewer P falciparum infections per 100 people, even after accounting for bednet use, wealth, and housing structure. Our finding of a protective association conferred by cattle ownership suggests that zooprophylaxis interventions might have a role in DR Congo, possibly by drawing An gambiae feeding away from humans. Studies of animal husbandry practices and associated mosquito behaviours could reveal opportunities for new malaria interventions. The National Institutes of Health and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. For the French and Lingala translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To better understand the social determinants of conceptual knowledge we devised a task in which participants were asked to judge the match between a definition (expressed in abstract or concrete terms) and a target-word (also either abstract or concrete). The task was presented in the form of a competition that could/could not include an opponent, and in which different percentages of response rounds were assigned to the participant at the experimenter's discretion. Thus, depending on the condition, participants were either exposed to a competitive context mimicking a privileged/unprivileged interaction with the experimenter or to a socially neutral setting. Results showed that manipulation of the social context selectively affected judgments on abstract stimuli: responses were significantly slower whenever a definition and/or a target word were presented in abstract form and when participants were in the favorable condition of responding in most of the trials. Moreover, only when processing abstract material, responses were slower when an opponent was expected to be present. Data are discussed in the frame of the different cognitive engagements involved when treating abstract and concrete concepts as well as in relation to the possible motivational factors prompted by the experimental set-up. The role of social context as a crucial element for abstract knowledge processing is also considered.

There are many parameters that could be used to evaluate the quality of scientific meetings such as publication rates of meeting abstracts as full-text articles after the meeting or scoring with validated quality scales/tools that evaluate individual papers, project proposals, or submitted abstracts. This study aimed to determine the full-text publication rates for abstracts presented at Turkish National Medical Education Congresses and Symposia and to assess the quality of given abstracts. Abstracts presented at national medical education congresses and symposia between 2010 and 2014 in Türkiye were evaluated. Initially, the abstracts were evaluated if they were published as full-text articles in international and national peer-reviewed journals following the meeting. Secondly, the quality of presented abstracts was assessed with the Medical Education Research Study Quality Instrument (MERSQI) scale. Overall publication rate for the abstracts was 11.3%. The publication rate of oral and poster presentations were 26.6% and 8.1%, respectively. Oral presentations had a statistically higher publication rate than poster presentations (p = .000). The mean MERSQI score for abstracts was 7.73 ± 2.59. The oral presentations had higher MERSQI mean scores than poster presentations (8.28 ± 2.46 vs. 7.61 ± 2.6; p = .032). Similarly, published abstracts had a significantly higher score compared to unpublished abstracts (10.07 ± 2.74 vs. 7.43 ± 2.41; p = .000). Interestingly, there was no statistical difference between the mean MERSQI scores of the published oral and poster presentations (9.33 ± 2.45 vs. 10.61 ± 2.72; p = .101). This study showed that the main factor for a meeting abstract to be published as a full-text article is the scientific quality of the study. The quality of presentations at annual medical education meetings in Türkiye were low compared with international meetings which did not improve over five years. An institutional policy that would set quality standards for medical education research and increase the awareness of researchers on the topic might help improve the design, execution, and reporting of such studies in Türkiye. The MERSQI could be a valuable tool to monitor the quality of submitted abstracts and to increase the awareness of novice researchers on high quality research.

School-related gender-based violence (SRGBV) includes sexual, physical or psychological violence occurring in and around schools often perpetrated by teachers or peers. In this review, we focus on studies comparing how data collection methodologies affect children's disclosures of SRGBV. We conducted a systematic review, searching nine databases for studies from high, middle and low-income countries using search terms related to violence, disclosure and data collection methodology. Records were initially screened by abstract and then full-texts were retrieved and data from eligible reports extracted. In this paper, we draw on results from this larger systematic review highlighting studies conducted with children which either collected data in schools or asked about violence in schools. We also describe methods compared and results of studies that were not conducted in schools, but that included children and young people. Finally, we describe how multi-country nationally representative surveys conducted in at least one low and middle-income country measure children's experiences of SRGBV. We screened 28,780 records, of which fourteen are included in this article. Only four studies compared data collection methodologies in schools or about violence in schools. These showed a 0 to more than 500-percent variation in the prevalence of violence measured using different data collection methodologies. An additional ten studies which were not conducted in schools, examined disclosure of violence in children and young people that was not specifically school-related. We assessed five multi-country national surveys that measured SRGBV. This limited evidence suggests that methods allowing increased anonymity (e.g. audio computer assisted self-interview, online surveys) may result in higher disclosure of violence, including SRGBV, than face-to-face interviewing. No studies included reported on safety, experiences of young people, or the costs of different methods. Multi-country national surveys used self-completion methods if completed in schools or face-to-face interviewing if completed in households, to measure SRGBV. Evidence on the impact of data collection method on SRGBV disclosure is limited, however current prevalence of SRGBV in international surveys used to monitor SDG progress may be underestimated due to data collection methods used. Further research on SRGBV should aim to test the effects of data collection methodology on the disclosure of violence. Efforts to improve the measurement of SRGBV is central to understanding the epidemiology, monitoring changes, and developing school and community-based programs as well as policies to prevent and respond to SRGBV.

During humanitarian emergencies, women and children are particularly vulnerable to health complications and neonatal mortality rates have been shown to rise. Additionally, health cluster partners face challenges in coordinating referrals, both between communities and camps to health facilities and across different levels of health facilities. The purpose of this review was to identify the primary referral needs of neonates during humanitarian emergencies, current gaps and barriers, and effective mechanisms for overcoming these barriers. A systematic review was performed using four electronic databases (CINAHL, EMBASE, Medline, and Scopus) between June and August 2019 (PROSPERO registration number CRD42019127705). Title, abstract, and full text screening were conducted following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses. The target population was neonates born during humanitarian emergencies. Studies from high-income countries and prior to 1991 were excluded. The STROBE checklist was used to assess for risk of bias. A total of 11 articles were included in the analysis; these were mainly cross-sectional, field-based studies. The primary needs identified were referrals from homes to health facilities before and during labour, and inter-facility referrals after labour to more specialised services. Some of the main barriers included a lack of roads and infrastructure for transport, staff shortages-especially among more specialised services, and a lack of knowledge among patients for self-referral. Mechanisms for addressing these needs and gaps included providing training for community healthcare workers (CHWs) or traditional birth attendants to identify and address antenatal and post-natal complications; education programmes for pregnant women during the antenatal period; and establishing ambulance services in partnership with local Non-Governmental Organizations. This review benefited from a strong consensus among selected studies but was limited in the quality of data and types of data that were reported. Based on the above findings, the following recommendations were compiled: Focus on local capacity-building programmes to address programmes acutely. Recruit CHWs to raise awareness of neonatal complications among pregnant women. Upskill CHWs to provide timely, appropriate and quality care during humanitarian emergencies.

Preliminary studies play a key role in developing large-scale interventions but may be held to higher or lower scientific standards during the peer review process because of their preliminary study status. Abstracts from 5 published obesity prevention preliminary studies were systematically modified to generate 16 variations of each abstract. Variations differed by 4 factors: sample size (n = 20 vs. n = 150), statistical significance (P < 0.05 vs. P > 0.05), study design (single group vs. randomized 2 groups), and preliminary study status (presence/absence of pilot language). Using an online survey, behavioral scientists were provided with a randomly selected variation of each of the 5 abstracts and blinded to the existence of other variations. Respondents rated each abstract on aspects of study quality. Behavioral scientists (n = 271, 79.7% female, median age 34 years) completed 1,355 abstract ratings. Preliminary study status was not associated with perceived study quality. Statistically significant effects were rated as more scientifically significant, rigorous, innovative, clearly written, warranted further testing, and had more meaningful results. Randomized designs were rated as more rigorous, innovative, and meaningful. Findings suggest reviewers place a greater value on statistically significant findings and randomized control design and may overlook other important study characteristics.

Telemedicine, understood as the provision of health care by a health professional to a patient who is physically not in the same location as the health professional, has many actual and potential benefits. It also has some disadvantages though, including a higher risk of misdiagnosis or another unfavorable outcome of certain remotely-provided services. In principle, the regime of legal liability for medical malpractice is the same for telemedicine as for traditional physical care. The general outline of the standard of care, which includes respect for medical science, the patient's individuality and objective possibilities, is abstract and flexible enough to be used for remote care without the need for redefinition. The quality of health care should be evaluated on the basis of the whole scale of risks and benefits it brings to a particular patient, including accessibility and comfort. In general, it should be permissible to provide a medical service remotely on the condition that its overall quality is at least as good as its comparable physical alternative. In other words, certain decrease in quality of some aspects of remote care can be compensated by other advantages. In terms of public health, support for telemedicine may bring a great improvement in the access to health care, and thus help significantly the individual members of the population. From the individual perspective, respect for personal autonomy implies that a patient should have every right to opt for a remote service, provided that there exists a true choice between meaningful options which is made on the basis of full information. If telemedicine is to fulfill its potential without sacrificing the protection of patients and their rights, reasonable guidelines for remote services need to be defined for particular medical fields, and for specific procedures within them. Among other issues, these guidelines must address the question of when it is necessary to refer the patient to physical care.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Physical restraint is widely used in the elderly at home, and cognitive impairment is an important risk factor. Family caregivers of people with dementia are the main decision makers and implementers of physical restraint at home. Most people with dementia in China receive home care, and family caregivers face enormous care and moral pressures influenced by Confucian culture. Current research on physical restraints focuses on quantitative analysis of its prevalence and reasons within the institutions. There is little research on how family caregivers perceive physical restraints in home care context, especially under Chinese culture. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Many family caregivers face approach - avoidance conflict and moral dilemmas when making decisions to restrain, and they make difficult choices in these dilemmas. In China, family caregivers are influenced by many unique factors, including traditional Confucian culture, family affection, and rural home environment. Inadequate laws and policies provide the ground for abuse of physical restraints, and family caregivers rarely consider legal and policy restrictions when using physical restraints. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: With limited medical resources, nurse-led dementia management is the hope to reduce physical restraints in home. Mental health nurses need to assess for the appropriateness of physical restraints associated with psychiatric symptoms in people with dementia. At both organizational and community levels, improving effective communication and relationships between professionals and family caregivers are important to address. Improvements in this context require education and time for staff to develop skills and experience which is necessary to provide family caregivers with ongoing information and psychological support within their communities. Considering Confucian culture will be of value for mental health nurses working in other countries where there are Chinese communities to better understand perceptions of family caregivers. INTRODUCTION: The use of physical restraints is a common practice in home care. Family caregivers face care-related and moral pressures due to the influence of Confucian culture in China. The use of physical restraints in the Chinese cultural environment may differ from the use of such restraints in other cultures. Current research on physical restraints focuses on quantitative analysis of its prevalence and reasons within the institutions. However, there is little research on how family caregivers perceive physical restraints in home care context, especially under Chinese culture. To explore the perceptions of family caregivers on physical restraints in people diagnosed with dementia receiving home care. A descriptive, qualitative study of Chinese family caregivers of people diagnosed with dementia in home care. Framework method analysis was adopted using the multilevel socio-ecological model. Beliefs about benefit lead to a dilemma for family caregivers. Cherishing family's affection encourages caregivers to reduce physical restraints, but lack of help from family members, professionals and the community forces them to restrain their loved ones. Future research should explore the complex issue of culturally specific physical restraints decisions. Mental health nurses must receive education regarding the negative outcomes of the use of physical restraints for family members of people diagnosed with dementia. A more liberal approach to mental health and relevant legislation, which is an emerging global phenomenon that is currently in an early phase of development in China, grants human rights to people diagnosed with dementia. Effective communication and relationships between professionals and family caregivers can contribute to the establishment of a dementia-friendly community in China.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: International guidelines for trans-and-gender-non-conforming (TGNC) exists in outpatient settings. Compared to cisgender and heterosexual people, TGNC individuals are at a higher risk of mental health difficulties and have higher rates of inpatient mental health treatment. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: An international scoping review identifying the lack of guidelines existing for TGNC individuals in inpatient mental health settings. Compared to psychiatrists and psychologists, mental health nursing has the most contact with patients admitted for inpatient psychiatric treatment. The study identifies unaddressed needs in gender affirming policies and outlines preliminary policy recommendations to assist mental health staff in improving TGNC patient quality of care within the United States. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Reforming existing guidelines or creating new guidelines based on the identified themes and gaps to improve the well-being and treatment outcomes of TGNC individuals in inpatient psychiatric settings within the United States. INTRODUCTION: Access to culturally sensitive care is critical for addressing known mental health disparities among trans-and gender-non-conforming (TGNC) individuals. Although there has been a proliferation of TGNC healthcare guidelines from accrediting bodies, policies have failed to address the needs of TGNC patients in inpatient psychiatric settings. To identify unaddressed needs in policies and policy recommendations for the care of TGNC patients to inform recommendations for change. A scoping review protocol was developed following the guidelines of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses 850 articles were reduced to seven relevant articles with six themes identified via thematic analysis. Six themes were identified: lack of consistency in preferred and pronoun use, lack of communication among providers, lack of training in TGNC healthcare, personal bias, lack of formal policies, and housing segregation by sex rather than gender. The creation of new guidelines or bolstering of existing guidelines to specifically address identified themes and gaps may improve the well-being and treatment outcomes of TGNC individuals in inpatient psychiatric settings. To provide a foundation for future studies to integrate these identified gaps and inform the future development of comprehensive formal policies that generalize TGNC care in inpatient settings.

Armed conflict is on the rise in sub-Saharan Africa and affects public infrastructures, including health systems, although evidence on population health is sparse. We aimed to establish how these disruptions ultimately affect health service coverage. We geospatially matched Demographic and Health Survey data with the Uppsala Conflict Data Program Georeferenced Events Dataset, covering 35 countries for the period from 1990 to 2020. We relied on linear probability models with fixed effects to capture the effect of nearby armed conflict (within 50 km of the survey cluster) on four service coverage indicators along the continuum of maternal and child health care. We also investigated effect heterogeneity by varying conflict intensity and duration, and sociodemographic status. The estimated coefficients represent the decrease in the probability (in percentage points) of the child or their mother being covered by the respective health service following deadly conflicts within 50 km. Any nearby armed conflict was associated with reduced coverage for all examined health services, with the exception of early antenatal care: early antenatal care (-0·5 percentage points, 95% CI -1·1 to 0·1), facility-based delivery (-2·0, -2·5 to -1·4), timely childhood vaccination (-2·5, -3·1 to -1·9), and treatment of common childhood illnesses (-2·5, -3·5 to -1·4). For all four health services, the negative effects increased for high-intensity conflicts and were significant throughout. When examining conflict duration, we did not find negative effects on the treatment of common childhood illnesses in prolonged conflicts. The analysis on effect heterogeneity revealed that, except for timely childhood vaccination, the negative effects of armed conflict on health service coverage were more pronounced in urban settings. Our findings suggest that health service coverage is significantly affected by contemporaneous conflict, but health systems can adapt to provide routine services, such as child curative services, in situations of prolonged conflict. Our analysis underlines the importance of studying health service coverage during conflict both at the finest possible scales and across different indicators, pointing at the need for differential policy interventions. None. For the French and Portuguese translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) are stressful or traumatic events experienced before the age of 18 years old. ACEs have been associated with an increased risk for substance use in adulthood. While an abundance of research has examined psychosocial factors that explain the link between ACEs and psychoactive substance use, little is known about the additional influence of the urban neighbourhood environment, including community-level factors, that influence the risk of substance use among populations with a history of ACEs. The following databases will be systematically searched: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane, PsycInfo, CINAHL, Clinicaltrials.gov and TRIP medical databases. After the title and abstract screening and full-text screening, we will also conduct a manual search of the reference sections of included articles and include relevant citations. Eligibility criteria include peer-reviewed articles that focus on populations with at least one ACE, factors from the urban neighbourhood community, such as elements from the built environment, presence of community service programmes, quality and vacancy of housing, neighbourhood level social cohesion, and neighbourhood level collective efficacy or crime. Included articles should also include terms such as 'substance abuse', 'prescription misuse' and 'dependence'. Only studies written or translated into the English language will be included. This systematic and scoping review will focus on peer-reviewed publications and does not require ethics approval. Findings will be available for clinicians, researchers and community members via publications and social media. This protocol describes the rationale and methods for the first scoping review to inform future research and community-level intervention development that targets substance use among populations who have experienced ACEs. CRD42023405151.

Low-income and food-insecure households are at risk of poor dietary quality and even more severe food insecurity. Especially in childhood, consuming a nutritionally adequate diet is an essential driver of health, growth, and development. Household-level factors can present challenges to support the nutritional needs of low-income and food-insecure household members. The aim of this scoping review is to identify the contributing household factors to dietary quality and food security in US households of school-aged children 5 to 19 years and synthesize the evidence around emergent themes for application to future interventions. The scoping review was conducted following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocols Extension for Scoping Reviews using search terms addressing food insecurity, low income, and dietary behaviors in the database PubMed. Screening by 3 independent reviewers of the title, abstract, and full study phases identified 44 studies. The 5 themes around which the studies grouped were: parental behaviors, child/adolescent behaviors, food procurement behaviors, food preparation behaviors, and household environment factors. Most studies were cross-sectional (n = 41, 93%) and focused on parental behaviors (n = 31, 70%), followed by food preparation and procurement behaviors. The themes identified were interrelated and suggest that incorporating education on parent and child behaviors that influence food procurement and preparation, along with strengthening organization and planning in the household environment, may hold promise to improve dietary quality and food security among food-insecure and low-income households. The findings can be used to inform future nutrition education interventions aimed at improving dietary quality and food security in households with school-aged children.

Nine in ten of the world's 1.74 million adolescents living with human immunodeficiency virus (ALHIV) live in Sub-Saharan Africa. Suboptimal adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and poor viral suppression are important problems among adolescents. To guide intervention efforts in this regard, this review presented pooled estimates on the prevalence of adherence and how it is affected by disclosure of HIV status among ALHIV in Sub-Saharan Africa. A comprehensive search in major databases (Excerpta Medica database (EMBASE), PubMed, Ovid/MEDLINE, HINARI, and Google Scholar) with additional hand searches for grey literature was conducted to locate observational epidemiologic studies published in English up to November 12, 2022 with the following inclusion criteria: primary studies that reported disclosure of HIV status as an exposure variable, had positive adherence to ART as an outcome, and conducted among adolescents and children. The COVIDENCE software was used for a title/abstract screening, full-text screening, the JBI quality assessment checklist, and data extraction. Random effects model was used to pool estimates. Furthermore, sensitivity analysis and subgroup analysis were also conducted by age groups and type of adherence measures used. This meta-analysis combines the effect estimates from 12 primary studies with 4422 participants. The prevalence of good adherence to ART was 73% (95% CI (confidence interval): 56 to 87; I2 = 98.63%, P = <0.001), and it was higher among adolescents who were aware of their HIV status, 77% (95% CI: 56 to 92; I2 = 98.34%, P = <0.001). Overall, knowledge of HIV status was associated with increased odds of adherence (odds ratio (OR) = 1.88, 95% CI: 1.21 to 2.94; I2 = 79.8%, P = <0.001). This was further supported in a subgroup analysis by age (seven studies, pooled OR = 1.89, 95% CI: 1.06 to 3.37; I2 = 81.3%, P = <0.0001) and whether primary studies controlled for confounding factors (six studies provided adjusted estimates, pooled OR = 2.61, 95% CI: 1.22 to 5.57; I2 = 88.1%, P = <0.001) confirmed this further. Our meta-analysis and systematic review revealed that knowledge of one's HIV status was associated with adherence to ART, particularly among adolescents. The findings underscored the importance of encouraging disclosure in order to enhance adherence among adolescents.

Humanitarian care is a vital component of the wartime mission. Children comprise a significant proportion of casualties injured by explosives and penetrating weapons. Children face a variety of unique injury patterns in the combat setting as high-powered firearms and explosives are rarely seen in the civilian setting. We sought to perform a scoping review of pediatric research from the recent US-led wars in Afghanistan, and Iraq conflicts beginning in 2001. We used Google Scholar and PubMed to identify pediatric combat literature published between 2001 and 2022. We utilized the PRISMA-ScR Checklist to conduct this review. We identified 52 studies that met inclusion for this analysis-1 prospective observational study, 50 retrospective studies, and 1 case report. All the original research studies were retrospective in nature except for one. We identified one prospective study that was a post hoc subanalysis from an overall study assessing the success of prehospital lifesaving interventions. Most of the articles came from varying registries created by the United States and British militaries for the purposes of trauma performance improvement. The deployed health service support mission often includes treatment of pediatric trauma patients. The deployed health service support mission often includes treatment of pediatric trauma patients. We found that available literature from this setting is limited to retrospective studies except for one prospective study. Our findings suggest that pediatric humanitarian care was a significant source of medical resource consumption within both of the major wars. Further, many of the lessons learned have directly translated into changes in civilian pediatric trauma care practices highlighting the need for collaborative scientific developments between the military and civilian trauma programs. Systematic Review/Meta-Analyses; Level III.

Transitional-aged youth (TAY) with mental health and/or addictions (MHA) concerns and their families experience significant challenges finding, accessing, and transitioning through needed MHA care. To develop appropriate supports that assist TAY and their families in navigating MHA care, their experiences of transitions in the MHA care system must be better understood. This scoping review identifies and explores the needs, barriers, and facilitators for TAY and their families when transitioning through MHA care. This scoping review commenced with a search of five relevant databases. Three research team members were involved in title, abstract, and full-text scanning and data extraction. Sources focusing on TAY anywhere between the ages of 12-29 years and meeting the study objectives were included. Extractions compiled background and narrative information about the nature and extent of the data. Analysis and synthesis of findings involved numerical description of the general information extracted (e.g., numbers of sources by country) and thematic analysis of narrative information extracted (e.g., family involvement in TAY help-seeking). A total of 5894 sources were identified. Following title and abstract scanning, 1037 sources remained for full-text review. A total of 66 sources were extracted. Findings include background information about extracted sources, in addition to five themes that emerged pertaining to barriers and facilitators to access and transitions through care and the needs and roles of TAY and families in supporting help-seeking and care transitions: holistic supports, proactive preparation, empowering TAY and families, collaborative relationships, and systemic considerations. These five themes demonstrate approaches to care that can ensure TAY and families' needs are met, barriers are mitigated, and facilitators are enhanced. This review provides essential contextual information regarding TAY with MHA concerns and their families' needs when seeking care. Such findings lend to an enhanced understanding of how MHA programs can support this population's needs, involve family members as appropriate, reduce the barriers experienced, and work to build upon existing facilitators.

Antibiotic resistance (ABR) has substantial global public health concerns. This systematic review aimed to synthesise recent evidence estimating the economic burden of ABR, characterised by study perspectives, healthcare settings, study design, and income of the countries. This systematic review included peer-reviewed articles from PubMed, Medline, and Scopus databases, and grey literature on the topic of the economic burden of ABR, published between January 2016 and December 2021. The study was reported in line with 'Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis' (PRISMA). Two reviewers independently screened papers for inclusion first by title, then abstract, and then the full text. Study quality was assessed using appropriate quality assessment tools. Narrative synthesis and meta-analyses of the included studies were conducted. A total of 29 studies were included in this review. Out of these studies, 69% (20/29) were conducted in high-income economies and the remainder were conducted in upper-and-middle income economies. Most of the studies were conducted from a healthcare or hospital perspective (89.6%, 26/29) and 44.8% (13/29) studies were conducted in tertiary care settings. The available evidence indicates that the attributable cost of resistant infection ranges from -US$2,371.4 to +US$29,289.1 (adjusted for 2020 price) per patient episode; the mean excess length of stay (LoS) is 7.4 days (95% CI: 3.4-11.4), the odds ratios of mortality for resistant infection is 1.844 (95% CI: 1.187-2.865) and readmission is 1.492 (95% CI: 1.231-1.807). Recent publications show that the burden of ABR is substantial. There is still a lack of studies on the economic burden of ABR from low-income economies, and lower-middle-income economies, from a societal perspective, and in relation to primary care. The findings of this review may be of value to researchers, policymakers, clinicians, and those who are working in the field of ABR and health promotion. CRD42020193886.

This study is the first systematic review to investigate the relationship between food insecurity (FI) and disordered eating behaviors exclusively in children and adolescents. Database searches were conducted in PUBMED, Embase, PsycINFO, ProQuest, and Gale OneFile: Informe Académico using English and Spanish search terms. Studies were included if they were published before August 2022, included youth aged 18 years and below, included either parent- or child-report of food security status, included either parent- or child-report of child disordered eating behaviors, and examined the relationship between food security status and child disordered eating behaviors. Following independent title/abstract and full-text screening, 20 studies were included in the review. There were 13 cross-sectional studies, five longitudinal studies, and two qualitative studies, from the United States (19 studies), and Bangladesh (1 study). Sample sizes ranged from 33 to 6077. Findings generally indicated a relationship between FI and behaviors such as binge eating, loss-of-control eating, eating in the absence of hunger, unhealthy weight control behaviors, and picky eating in children and adolescents, though this association varied depending on the type of disordered eating behavior assessed and FI severity. Results highlight the importance of screening for disordered eating behaviors among youth with FI towards eating disorder prevention and intervention. However, given the limited number of primary research articles examining this relationship in youth, further hypothesis-driven research is needed. In addition, more global representation and additional longitudinal studies are needed to further examine the generalizability and temporality of FI and disordered eating in children and adolescents.

There are public health concerns about an increased risk of mortality after release from prison. The objectives of this scoping review were to investigate, map and summarise evidence from record linkage studies about drug-related deaths among former adult prisoners. MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsychINFO and Web of Science were searched for studies (January 2011- September 2021) using keywords/index headings. Two authors independently screened all titles and abstracts using inclusion and exclusion criteria and subsequently screened full publications. Discrepancies were discussed with a third author. One author extracted data from all included publications using a data charting form. A second author independently extracted data from approximately one-third of the publications. Data were entered into Microsoft Excel sheets and cleaned for analysis. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) were pooled (where possible) using a random-effects DerSimonian-Laird model in STATA. A total of 3680 publications were screened by title and abstract, and 109 publications were fully screened; 45 publications were included. The pooled drug-related SMR was 27.07 (95%CI 13.32- 55.02; I 2 = 93.99%) for the first two weeks (4 studies), 10.17 (95%CI 3.74-27.66; I 2 = 83.83%) for the first 3-4 weeks (3 studies) and 15.58 (95%CI 7.05-34.40; I 2 = 97.99%) for the first 1 year after release (3 studies) and 6.99 (95%CI 4.13-11.83; I 2 = 99.14%) for any time after release (5 studies). However, the estimates varied markedly between studies. There was considerable heterogeneity in terms of study design, study size, location, methodology and findings. Only four studies reported the use of a quality assessment checklist/technique. This scoping review found an increased risk of drug-related death after release from prison, particularly during the first two weeks after release, though drug-related mortality risk remained elevated for the first year among former prisoners. Evidence synthesis was limited as only a small number of studies were suitable for pooled analyses for SMRs due to inconsistencies in study design and methodology.

This scoping review will identify and map available nursing interventions provided by pediatric oncology hospital services to pediatric patients with cancer and/or their family members. The aim is to develop a comprehensive overview of the characteristics of nursing interventions and to identify potential knowledge gaps. Clinical nursing care is an essential part of pediatric oncology. In pediatric oncology nursing research, a shift from explanatory studies to intervention studies is recommended. The body of research on interventions for pediatric oncology patients and their families has grown in recent years. However, there are no reviews on nursing interventions currently available for pediatric oncology. Studies will be considered for inclusion if they refer to pediatric patients with cancer, and/or family members of a pediatric patient with cancer, who have received non-pharmacological and non-procedural nursing interventions provided by a pediatric oncology hospital service. Studies must also be peer-reviewed, published from the year 2000 onward, and written in English, Danish, Norwegian, or Swedish. The review will be conducted in accordance with the JBI guidelines for scoping reviews. A 3-step search strategy will be followed using the PCC mnemonic (Population, Concept, Context). The databases to be searched will include Scopus, PubMed, CINAHL, PsyclNFO, and Embase. The identified studies will be screened based on title and abstract, as well as full text, by 2 independent reviewers. Data will be extracted and managed in Covidence. A summary of the results will be presented as a narrative description, supported by tables.

Self-immolation is the act of setting fire to oneself. Recent spikes in self-immolation events have been noticed in the Arab world, specifically in the aftermath of the Arab Spring in 2011. We aimed to examine the literature assessing the characteristics and patterns of suicide by self-immolation in the Arab world. We registered our systematic review in Prospero. We searched PubMed, Medline, PsycInfo, Embase, and Scopus databases from inception until 9 July 2022, along with other sources, following the PRISMA 2020 guidelines. We collected relevant articles tackling suicide by self-immolation in the Arab world via title and abstract screening followed by full-text screening. We then conducted a narrative synthesis of the results. Out of 326 records from databases and 17 additional records identified through other sources, 31 articles (27 quantitative and 4 qualitative) were included. The studies came from Iraq (n = 16), Tunisia (n = 6), Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (n = 3), Jordan (n = 2), Libya (n = 2), Bahrain (n = 1), and Egypt (n = 1). The quantitative studies had a sample size ranging from 22 to 600 self-inflicted burn victims. Studies showed that self-immolators were mostly married women with low educational level and low socioeconomic status. Self-immolation was more likely to happen at home, usually following marital conflicts. Kerosene was the accelerant used the most. Depression was the most comorbid mental health diagnosis. Studies highlighted that self-immolation was being increasignly used as a form of protest. Self-immolation is not uncommon in the Arab world. Specific interventions directed at the population at risk are warranted.

To investigate the association between women's socioeconomic status and overall childbirth experience and to explore how women reporting an overall negative birth experience describe their experiences of intrapartum care. We used both quantitative and qualitative data from the Babies Born Better (B3) survey version 2, including a total of 8317 women. First, we performed regression analyses to explore the association between women's socioeconomic status and labour and birth experience, and then a thematic analysis of three open-ended questions from women reporting a negative childbirth experience (n = 917). In total 11.7% reported an overall negative labour and birth experience. The adjusted odds ratio (OR) of a negative childbirth experience was elevated for women with non-tertiary education, for unemployed, students and not married or cohabiting. Women with lower subjective living standard had an adjusted OR of 1.70 (95% CI 1.44-2.00) for a negative birth experience, compared with those with average subjective living standard. The qualitative analysis generated three themes: 1) Uncompassionate care: lack of sensitivity and empathy, 2) Impersonal care: feeling objectified, and 3) Critical situations: feeling unsafe and loss of control. Important socioeconomic disparities in women's childbirth experiences exist even in the Norwegian setting. Women reporting a negative childbirth experience described disrespect and mistreatment as well as experiences of insufficient attention and lack of awareness of individual and emotional needs during childbirth. The study shows that women with lower socioeconomic status are more exposed to these types of experiences during labour and birth. Women with lower socioeconomic status are more exposed to negative experiences during labour and birth.

Prospective registration has been widely implemented and accepted as a best practice in clinical research, but retrospective registration is still commonly found. We assessed to what extent retrospective registration is reported transparently in journal publications and investigated factors associated with transparent reporting. We used a dataset of trials registered in ClinicalTrials.gov or Deutsches Register Klinischer Studien, with a German University Medical Center as the lead centre, completed in 2009-2017, and with a corresponding peer-reviewed results publication. We extracted all registration statements from results publications of retrospectively registered trials and assessed whether they mention or justify the retrospective registration. We analysed associations of retrospective registration and reporting thereof with registration number reporting, International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) membership/-following and industry sponsorship using χ In the dataset of 1927 trials with a corresponding results publication, 956 (53.7%) were retrospectively registered. Of those, 2.2% (21) explicitly report the retrospective registration in the abstract and 3.5% (33) in the full text. In 2.1% (20) of publications, authors provide an explanation for the retrospective registration in the full text. Registration numbers were significantly underreported in abstracts of retrospectively registered trials compared with prospectively registered trials. Publications in ICMJE member journals did not have statistically significantly higher rates of both prospective registration and disclosure of retrospective registration, and publications in journals claiming to follow ICMJE recommendations showed statistically significantly lower rates compared with non-ICMJE-following journals. Industry sponsorship of trials was significantly associated with higher rates of prospective registration, but not with transparent registration reporting. Contrary to ICMJE guidance, retrospective registration is disclosed and explained only in a small number of retrospectively registered studies. Disclosure of the retrospective nature of the registration would require a brief statement in the manuscript and could be easily implemented by journals.

This umbrella review will provide a broad overview of the prevalence of vertical and horizontal bullying, the departments and the workers most affected by these attacks. We included systematic reviews and meta-analyses examining the effects of bullying on healthcare workers. Data extraction and analysis was performed on all included studies. The research strategy was undertaken in May 2021 and included three electronic databases (PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science): a total of 435 articles were retrieved from the Abstract and, once duplicates and irrelevant articles were removed, a total of 19 useful articles were reviewed. A comprehensive search was done to retrieve articles based on a PRISMA compliant protocol registered in PROSPERO: CRD 42021268082. The general prevalence goes from 2 to 100%; for the individual healthcare workers, the highest prevalence is among nurses, 9-100%, followed by doctors 11.50-78.10%. Due to the heterogeneity of the studies, the other healthcare workers such as midwives, radiology technicians, administrative, employees were grouped and their prevalence goes from 3.30 to 100%. The results show that female nurses are significantly more likely to be abused than their male colleagues (women 3.60-100%; men 2.00-64.40%). The workplace in many studies was relevant for bullying: in particular, the most affected departments were emergency departments (2-100%) followed by intensive care units (17-84.80%). Bullying is extremely present among health workers and must be adequately countered. It will be necessary to carry out further studies to deepen the knowledge on this matter.

The Continuing Training Courses of Medical Assessors and Legal Medical Advisors in Swiss Insurance Medicine (SIM) 

Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is a retrovirus that causes severe diseases, such as aggressive cancer or progressive neurological disease. HTLV-1 affects mainly people in areas with low human development index and can be transmitted from mother to child, primarily through breastfeeding. Refraining from breastfeeding is an effective intervention to reduce the risk of infection in infants. However, HTLV-1 antenatal screening is not offered globally. According to WHO, the scarcity of cost-effectiveness studies is considered one of the major barriers to the implementation of policies to prevent HTLV-1 infection. Therefore, this study aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of antenatal screening and postnatal interventions to prevent HTLV-1 mother-to-child transmission in Brazil and to develop an open-access, editable, mathematical model that can be used by other countries and regions to assess different scenarios. In this cost-utility analysis, we constructed a decision tree and a Markov model to assess the cost-effectiveness of HTLV-1 antenatal screening and postnatal interventions (ie, avoidance of breastfeeding, by suppression of lactation with cabergoline, and provision of formula feed) to reduce transmission. For our model, we used data from Brazil and we took the perspective of the public health-care system to estimate costs. The implementation of both screening and interventions would result in the prevention of 1039 infections in infants every year in Brazil with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US$11 415 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). 88% of all probabilistic sensitivity analysis simulations had ICER values lower than the Brazilian cost-effectiveness threshold ($18 107·74 per QALY). HTLV-1 prevalence in pregnant women, the risk of HTLV-1 transmission when breastfeeding lasts for 6 months or more, and the cost of screening tests were the variables with the largest effect on ICER. HTLV-1 antenatal screening is cost-effective in Brazil. An open-access model was developed, and this tool could be used to assess the cost-effectiveness of such policy globally, favouring the implementation of interventions to prevent HTLV-1 mother-to-child transmission worldwide. None. For the Portuguese and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Sub-Saharan Africa is highly endemic for hepatitis B virus (HBV); historically, most people were exposed during childhood through vertical or horizontal transmission. Although all African countries now provide a three-dose infant hepatitis B vaccination starting at age 6-8 weeks, only a third of African countries have introduced birth dose (HepB-BD) vaccine. Adding HepB-BD is fundamental to prevent vertical transmission, but its effectiveness in preventing horizontal transmission, compared with the three-dose infant vaccination alone, is unknown. We aimed to estimate the risk of early horizontal transmission in children of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-negative mothers in sub-Saharan Africa stratified according to the vaccination schedule. In this systematic review and meta-analysis we searched MEDLINE, Global Health, Embase, African Index Medicus and African Journals Online from their inception to Oct 24, 2022, for studies reporting HBsAg or HBV DNA, or both, in children (aged 0-5 years) of HBsAg-negative mothers. We excluded studies if children were only tested at birth. Two reviewers independently screened the titles and abstracts of all articles and data were extracted using a standardised pre-piloted data extraction sheet, and authors were contacted if any important information was missing. The primary outcome was the risk of HBV infection in children of HBsAg-negative mothers, stratified by vaccination schedule (no vaccination, first dose at 6-8 weeks, or first dose at birth). We pooled the child risks of HBsAg or HBV DNA-positivity from the age of 0 years to 5 years via a random-effect meta-analysis using a generalised linear mixed model. The study was registered on PROSPERO, CRD42021236203. Of 8856 articles identified, 27 studies evaluating 10 003 children of HBsAg-negative mothers were included. The pooled risks of infection were 6·16% (95% CI 3·05-12·04; 155/1407) in the no vaccination group, 0·21% (0·04-1·15; 10/3425) in children who received their first dose at 6-8 weeks, and 0·05% (0·00-1·32; 3/2902) in children who received their first dose at birth. The difference was not statistically significant in children who received their first dose at 6-8 weeks and children who received their first dose at birth after adjusting for the study period, region, and maternal HIV status (test of moderators p=0·37). In children of HBsAg-negative mothers, the risk of infection might be minimal even with the vaccination starting at 6-8 weeks, without clear additional benefit from HepB-BD. When births take place at home and timely administration of HepB-BD is challenging, antenatal HBsAg screening and selective HepB-BD might allow efficient allocation of resources to mother and child pairs at high risk compared with universal HepB-BD. None. For the French translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

The European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation funding program awarded the NIGHTINGALE grant to develop a toolkit to support first responders engaged in prehospital (PH) mass casualty incident (MCI) response. To reach the projects' objectives, the NIGHTINGALE consortium used a Translational Science (TS) process. The present work is the first TS stage (T1) aimed to extract data relevant for the subsequent modified Delphi study (T2) statements. The authors were divided into three work groups (WGs) MCI Triage, PH Life Support and Damage Control (PHLSDC), and PH Processes (PHP). Each WG conducted simultaneous literature searches following the PRISMA extension for scoping reviews. Relevant data were extracted from the included articles and indexed using pre-identified PH MCI response themes and subthemes. The initial search yielded 925 total references to be considered for title and abstract review (MCI Triage 311, PHLSDC 329, PHP 285), then 483 articles for full reference review (MCI Triage 111, PHLSDC 216, PHP 156), and finally 152 articles for the database extraction process (MCI Triage 27, PHLSDC 37, PHP 88). Most frequent subthemes and novel concepts have been identified as a basis for the elaboration of draft statements for the T2 modified Delphi study. The three simultaneous scoping reviews allowed the extraction of relevant PH MCI subthemes and novel concepts that will enable the NIGHTINGALE consortium to create scientifically anchored statements in the T2 modified Delphi study.

Maintaining the dignity of patients who attempted suicide is one of the caregivers' main ethical duties. Yet, in many cases, these patients are not treated with dignity. The concept of dignity is abstract, and there is no research on the dignity of suicidal patients. So, the present study is done to investigate psychiatric nurses' perception of dignity in patients who attempted suicide. The present study explores the concept of dignity in patients who attempted suicide from the perspective of psychiatric nurses. The present study is a qualitative, descriptive work of research. A total of 20 psychiatric nurses from 2 hospitals affiliated with a university of medical sciences in the southeast of Iran were selected via purposeful sampling. The Research Ethics Committee of the Hamadan University of Medical Sciences approved the study's protocol, and ethical principles were followed in general. From the findings of the study, three main themes, namely " respect for personal; identity," "management of psychological tension," and "compassion-focused therapy," with 12 sub-themes were extracted. In the perspective of caregivers, patients who attempted suicide need to be cared for in supportive environments with compassionate and respectful behaviors to control their psychological tensions. These conditions would maintain such patients' dignity and result in appropriate behavioral outcomes. Policy-makers and administrators can use the present study's findings to create an appropriate clinical environment in which the dignity of patients who attempted suicide is properly maintained.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Suicide prevention is an international healthcare priority. There is an urgent need to use approaches that are helpful and follow research evidence. Safety planning is now widely used in suicide prevention; however, it was developed for use with adults, and little is known about its effectiveness for children/young people. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This systematic scoping review brings together all research evidence since 2008 that reported how effective safety planning is for children/young people. Findings highlight that when healthcare professionals help children/young people who are suicidal, they need to ensure that the safety plan is completed collaboratively with healthcare professionals and children/young people and that it is appropriate for their age and development. There is also need for healthcare professionals to better recognize and respond to the needs of parents/carers who are caring for a child/young person with suicidal ideations/behaviours. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is some research indicating that safety planning is effective for use with children/young people, but such evidence has primarily been obtained from females and there is need for more evidence from male study populations. Further research on its use is needed for certain groups of children/young people including those who are care experienced, or identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender. This review highlighted that healthcare professionals need specific training before they deliver safety planning for children/young people. It was identified that parents/carers have additional needs and should be involved in safety planning. An additional resource specifically for parents/carers should be developed. INTRODUCTION: Suicide is a leading cause of death for children and young people and its prevention is a global priority. Many Mental Health Services employ safety planning as a brief intervention. There is some evidence of safety planning effectiveness for adults, but little is known about its effectiveness with young people. To synthesize research reporting safety planning effectiveness for children/young people with suicidal ideation and identify good practice recommendations. The review relates to safety planning around suicide prevention for children/young people aged less than 18 years, even if it was within a wider intervention. The review was inclusive of all clinical areas (including mental health, primary care, etc), any geographical location or social economic status and inclusivity around the method of delivery. A systematic scoping review of literature reporting effectiveness data for the use of safety planning with children/young people with suicidal ideation. The systematic scoping review protocol (pre-registered with Open Science Framework) followed Joanna Briggs Institute conduct guidance and PRISMA-ScR checklist. Fifteen studies were reported during 2008-2021. Overall, there is promising, but limited, evidence of effectiveness for safety planning for children/young people but with complete evidence gaps for some demographic sub-groups. Evidence determined that healthcare professionals should deliver a safety planning intervention that is completed collaboratively, developmentally appropriate, and recognizes parental/carer involvement. Further research is needed but current evidence suggests safety planning should be a routine part of care packages for children/young people with suicidal ideation proportionate to their needs. Developing/implementing these plans needs bespoke health professional training and additional support and resources for parents/carers should be developed.

Young people constitute a critical mass in Africa south of the Sahara (SSA) yet lack adequate information on sexuality education essential for their health and development. Guided by two sociological perspectives on socialization, that is, structural functionalism and conflict perspective, our study had 2 aims: 1) to identify and analyze studies investigating parent-adolescent sexuality communication (ie, triggers/contents) and 2) to identify and discuss barriers to sexuality-related communication between parents and adolescents. The scoping review was conducted according to the Arksey and O'Malley framework and used PRISMA reporting guidelines for scoping reviews. We searched three databases (Scopus, PubMed, and Google Scholar) for relevant articles published in English in the last decade -2011 to 2021 and analyzed the data using a qualitative content analysis approach. A total of 1045 studies were identified. After abstract review, we identified 58 papers, and after full-text review, 16 studies were included in the final review. Aim 1a) Discussions of sexuality-related conversations were triggered by parents/caretakers due to pubertal/physical changes and adolescents' "inapt" behaviors (eg, engaging in sex). Aim 1b) Our results showed that contents of sexuality education de-emphasized/avoided sensitive sexuality-related topics (such as condom use/contraception) that did not fit within the sociocultural norms/expectations, characterized by threats, cautions, and wrought with moralistic and religious views that evaded practical information regarding sex, contraception, and other critical sexual information. Aim 2: Two themes emerged as barriers that impede sexuality-related discussions, including whose responsibility it is to discuss sexuality-issues with adolescents and the gender differences/discordance of parent-adolescent dyads. Sexuality education for adolescents in SSA is not comprehensive due to structured power relations. Thus, parent-adolescent sexuality communication falls short of the value of sexuality education for young people for whom accurate and complete sexual health information is critical for making informed decisions as they emerge into adulthood.

The incidence of self-harm is an important indicator in suicide surveillance and a target outcome for suicide prevention. Self-harm rates vary by geographic location and rurality appears to be a risk factor. The objectives of this study were to estimate rates of self-harm hospitalization in Canada over a 5-year period by sex and age group, and examine relationships between self-harm and rurality. Hospitalizations related to self-harm were identified in a national dataset (the Discharge Abstract Database) for all patients aged 10 years or older who were discharged from hospital between 2015 and 2019. Self-harm hospitalization rates were calculated and stratified by year, sex, age group, and level of rurality, as measured using the Index of Remoteness. A Poisson regression was fit to estimate rate ratios for the levels of rurality. Rates of self-harm hospitalization were higher for females than males across all levels of rurality and increased with each level for both sexes, except for among young males. The widest rural-to-urban disparities were observed for the 10-19 and 20-34-year old age groups. Females aged 10-19 in very remote areas had the highest self-harm hospitalization rate. The rate of self-harm hospitalization in Canada varied by sex, age group, and level of rurality. Clinical and community-based interventions for self-harm, such as safety planning and increased access to mental health services, should be tailored to the differential risks across geographic contexts.

People with disability often require long-term care. Long-term care is changing with the availability and advances in cost and function of technologies, such as home automation. Home automation has the potential to reduce paid carer hours and can potentially offer many benefits to people with a disability. The aim of this scoping review is to identify the health, social and economic outcomes experienced by people living with a disability who use home automation. Two electronic databases were searched by title and abstract to identify international literature that describes home automation experiences from the perspectives of people with disability. A thematic approach was taken to synthesise the data to identify the key outcomes from home automation. The review identified 11 studies reporting home automation outcomes for people living with a disability. Seven outcomes were associated with home automation: independence, autonomy, participation in daily activities, social and community connectedness, safety, mental health, and paid care and informal care. Advances in technology and changes in funding to support people living with a disability have made access to home automation more readily available. Overall, the study findings showed that there is a range of potential benefits of home automation experienced by individuals living with a disability.

Veteran patients have access to a broad range of health care services in the Veterans' Health Administration (VHA). There are concerns, however, that all Veteran patients may not have access to timely care. The Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks Act was passed in 2018 to ensure that eligible Veterans can receive timely, high-quality care. The Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks Act makes use of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-contracted care to achieve its goal. There are concerns, however, that these transitions of care may, in fact, place Veterans at a higher risk of poor health outcomes. This is a particular concern with regard to suicide prevention. No study has investigated suicide-related safety events in Veteran patients who receive care in VA-contracted community care settings. A retrospective analysis of root-cause analysis (RCA) reports and patient safety reports of suicide-related safety events that involved VA-contracted community care was conducted. Events that were reported to the VHA National Center for Patient Safety between January 1, 2018, and June 30, 2022, were included. A coding book was developed to abstract relevant variables from each report, for example, report type and facility and patient characteristics. Root causes reported in RCAs were also coded, and the factors that contributed to the events were described in the patient safety reports. Two reviewers independently coded 10 cases, and we then calculated a kappa. Because the kappa was greater than 80% (i.e. 89.2%), one reviewer coded the remaining cases. Among 139 potentially eligible reports, 88 reports were identified that met the study inclusion criteria. Of these 88 reports, 62.5% were patient safety reports and 37.5% were RCA reports. There were 129 root causes of suicide-related safety events involving VA-contracted community care. Most root causes were because of health care-related processes. Reports cited concerns around challenges with communication and deficiencies in mental health treatment. A few reports also described concerns that community care providers were not available to engage in patient safety activities. Patient safety reports voiced similar concerns but also pointed to specific issues with the safety of the environment, for example, access to methods of strangulation in community care treatment settings in an emergency room or a rehabilitation unit. It is important to strengthen the systems of care across VHA- and VA-contracted community care settings to reduce the risk of suicide in Veteran patients. This includes developing standardized methods to improve the safety of the clinical environment as well as implementing robust methods to facilitate communication between VHA and community care providers. In addition, Veteran patients may benefit from quality and safety activities that capitalize on the collective knowledge of VHA- and VA-contracted community care organizations.

Cleft lip and palate (CL/P) are among the most common congenital abnormalities. The purpose of the present study was to review the literature relating to the quality of life (QoL) in young patients with cleft lip and/or palate (CL/P) and to identify the specific aspect of QoL in young patients with CL/P that is mostly affected. Other associated variables within studies that may have an impact on QoL were also identified. Systematic searches of PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science databases were conducted. Independent reviewers screened the title, abstract and full texts according to predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Articles published in English from January 2012 to March 2022 reporting the QoL of non-syndromic young patients aged 7-18 years with CL/P were included. Review articles and articles reporting the psychological adjustment of parents or other family members with CL/P were excluded. 975 publications were identified, of which 20 studies met our inclusion criteria. The majority of studies reported that the CL/P condition has a negative impact on the QoL. Psychological health, functional well-being, socialemotional well-being and school environment are domains that are affected. Compared with typically developing young patients, those with CL/P had lower QoL scores even though QoL was assessed using different instruments across studies. The impact of CL/P on overall QoL scores varied by age but not gender or cleft type. Our reviews had shown the presence of CL/P negatively affects the QoL of young patients. Psychological health is the most affected QoL domain. Understanding the impacted domain will help in planning and delivering better health care for individuals with CL/P and reducing the stigma commonly associated with CL/P. Future studies should target intervention on psychological health and consider resilience factors towards positive adjustment.

Both cardiovascular disease (CVD) and social health carry high health and economic burdens. We undertook a systematic review to investigate the association between social isolation, low social support, and loneliness with health service utilisation and survival after a CVD event among people living in Australia and New Zealand. Four electronic databases were systematically searched for the period before June 2020. Two reviewers undertook the title/abstract screen. One reviewer undertook a full-text screen and data extraction. A second author checked data extraction. Of 756 records, 25 papers met our inclusion criteria. Included studies recruited 10-12,821 participants, aged 18-98 years, and the majority were males. Greater social support was consistently associated with better outcomes on four of the five themes (discharge destination, outpatient rehabilitation attendance, rehospitalisation and survival outcomes; no papers assessed the length of inpatient stay). Positive social health was consistently associated with better discharge designation to higher independent living. As partner status and living status did not align with social isolation and social support findings in this review, we recommend they not be used as social health proxies. Our systematic review demonstrates that social health is considered in cardiac care decisions and plays a role in how healthcare is being delivered (i.e., outpatient, rehabilitation, or nursing home). This likely contributes to our finding that lower social support is associated with high-intensity healthcare services, lower outpatient rehabilitation attendance, greater rehospitalisation and poorer survival. Given our evidence, the first step to improve cardiac outcomes is acknowledging that social health is part of the decision-making process. Incorporating a formal assessment of social support into healthcare management plans will likely improve cardiac outcomes and survival. Further research is required to assess if support person/s need to engage in the risk reduction behaviours themselves for outpatient rehabilitation to be effective. Further synthesis of the impact of social isolation and loneliness on health service utilisation and survival after a CVD event is required.

The neonatal ICU (NICU) setting is a unique opportunity to not only detect major changes in caregiver mental health through universal perinatal mood and anxiety disorder (PMAD) screening but also intervene with specialized support. We review evidence for addressing caregiver mental health in the NICU, explore current guidelines and models for integrated behavioural health programmes, and describe challenges specific to NICUs, particularly in standalone paediatric hospitals. Parents of infants admitted to the NICU are at an increased risk for developing PMADs at rates well above the general postpartum community. Select NICUs within the United States and internationally have recognized the importance of having an embedded psychologist to address caregiver PMADs. However, organizational structures within paediatric healthcare systems are not equipped to manage the logistical, ethical, legal and practical needs of comprehensive caregiver mental health programmes. To properly address caregiver mental health in NICU settings, clinical and administrative teams must work together to ensure seamless service provision. Systems that facilitate the development of unique parent medical records at the onset of paediatric care are likely to significantly reduce potential liability risks and solve several challenges related to caregiver-focused mental health support in the NICU. http://links.lww.com/MOP/A70.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Coercive measures represent an ethical conflict because they limit the person's freedom, compromising their personal autonomy, self-determination and fundamental rights. The reduction of the use of coercive measures implies not only regulations and mental health systems, but also cultural aspects, such as societal beliefs, attitudes, and values. There is evidence about the professionals' views on coercion in acute mental health care units and community settings, but they remain unexplored in inpatient rehabilitation units. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The knowledge about coercion varied from not knowing at all the meaning of the word, to a proper description of the phenomenon. Coercive measures are considered a necessary evil or normalized in mental health care and considered implicit to daily practice. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The perceptions and attitudes towards coercion might be influenced by the knowledge about the phenomenon. Training of mental health nursing staff in non-coercive practice could help professionals to detect, be conscious towards, and question coercive measures, thus orienting them to the effective implementation of interventions or programmes with evidenced effectiveness to reduce them. INTRODUCTION: Creating a therapeutic and safe milieu with the minimum coercive measures requires knowing professionals' perceptions and attitudes towards coercion, but they remain unexplored in medium and long-stay inpatient psychiatric rehabilitation units. To explore the knowledge, perception and experience of coercion among nursing staff at a rehabilitation medium-stay mental health unit (MSMHU) in Eastern Spain. Qualitative phenomenological study including 28 face-to-face, semi-structured interviews based on a script. Data were analysed using content analysis. Two main themes were found: (1) therapeutic relationship and treatment in the MSMHU, which included three subthemes: qualities of the professionals for building the therapeutic relationship; perceptions about the persons admitted to the MSMHU; views of the therapeutic relationship and treatment in the MSMHU; (2) Coercion at the MSMHU, comprising five subthemes: professional knowledge; general aspects; emotional impact of coercion; opinions; alternatives. Coercive measures are often normalized in mental health care and considered implicit to daily practice. A proportion of participants who did not know what coercion is. Knowledge about coercion might influence attitudes towards coercion. Mental health nursing staff could benefit from formal training in non-coercive practice, facilitating the operative implementation of effective interventions or programmes.

Research in social psychology and experimental philosophy has investigated lay people's free will beliefs (FWB). Using different approaches (i.e. experimental manipulations and vignette studies), they investigated how FWB relate to other concepts, and whether changing FWB has an impact on downstream processes such as social behavior. However, both approaches have shortcomings. While experimental manipulations used in social psychology suffer from demand effects, vignettes used in experimental philosophy are often highly abstract. Across two pre-registered studies, we developed a new approach by merging them in an online video game setting. Using this novel, experience-based FWB manipulation, we found that decreasing FWB impacted variables such as perceived control and responsibility in both studies. While the experience-based manipulation influenced participants' beliefs in free will within the context of the experience ("Within the context of the scenario, would the agent believe in free will?") in the first study, this manipulation effect did not transfer to participants' general FWB ("Do you believe in free will?") in the second study. Overall, our findings suggest a way forward in studying laypeople's beliefs in free will.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Immigrant, refugee and asylum seeker populations worldwide are at high risk of mental health issues National mental health policies call for recognising Australian society's multicultural characteristics to ensure adequate mental health services to CALD communities Several barriers exist for people from CALD communities in Victoria to access and utilise mental health services Improving mental health professionals' knowledge of mental health service provision and cultural responsiveness can enhance CALD community access to services. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We analysed the perspectives of people from CALD communities in Victoria regarding their needs and experiences with mental health services. Participants reported diverse perceptions and understanding of mental health issues and services Various challenges were identified regarding health service utilisation for the CALD community in Victoria, including language barriers, stigma towards mental health issues, mental health illiteracy, distrust and lack of familiarity with mainstream mental health services. These challenges were acknowledged by community members even after a long residence in Australia The data generated on the beliefs about mental health issues and consequent help-seeking behaviours highlight the importance of culturally sensitive targeted prevention and early intervention strategies and ongoing commitment to building mental health literacy in the wider community WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The information from the study can be adapted for quality improvement and culturally responsive practices The strategies for effective service delivery drawn by this paper can be a comprehensive resource tool for mental health professionals, organisations and policymakers The findings imply that CALD mental health service users and their families will likely benefit from improved service assessment and quality of mental health care and equity when MHNs undertake cultural competence training and bring that into their practice. INTRODUCTION: Victoria is one of the most multicultural states in Australia. Many CALD communities in Victoria may have encountered complicated migration journeys and complex life stressors during their initial settlement, leading to adverse mental health concerns. This diversity necessitates public policy settings to ensure equity and access in health services planning and delivery. While the MH policies and services take cultural diversity into account, there needs to be more implementation of those components of MH policies that relate to the particular needs of various CALD communities in Victoria. Even though mental health services prevent and address mental health issues, many barriers can impair CALD community access and utilisation of mental health services. Furthermore, the recent Royal Commission inquiry into the Victorian Mental Health system drives a renewed policy imperative to ensure meaningful engagement and cultural safety of all people accessing and utilising mental health services (Department of Health, 2023). This study focused on the perspectives of people from CALD communities in Victoria regarding their mental health service needs, understandings of and experiences with mental health services to prepare an education package for mental health nurses as part of a larger multi-method research project. A qualitative descriptive design was used to collect and analyse the perspectives of 21 participants in Victoria, using telephone interviews, followed by thematic analysis. The themes and sub-themes identified were: Settling issues; Perceptions of understanding of mental health issues (help-seeking attitudes toward mental health issues; the need for CALD community education); perceived barriers to accessing and utilising mental health services in Victoria (socio-cultural and language barriers; stigma, labelling and discrimination; knowledge and experience of accessing health facilities); experience with mental health services and professionals. Community participation, mental health professional education and robust research regarding the mental health needs of CALD people are some of the recommended strategies to improve access and utilisation of mental health services in Victoria. The current study can contribute to the existing knowledge, understanding, practice and quality improvement as it vividly portrays the issues of various CALD communities in Victoria. The findings of this study imply that CALD MH service users and their families are likely to benefit in terms of improved service assessment and quality of MH care and equity when MHNs undertake CC training and bring that into their practice.

The importance of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in trauma and acute care surgery (ACS) has become increasingly apparent in the field of medicine. Despite the growing diversity of the patient population, the surgical specialty has traditionally been dominated by White males. This involves increasing the representation of diverse individuals in leadership positions, professional societies, scholarships, graduate education, and practicing physicians. This opinion piece aims to address the gaps in the literature regarding DEI in trauma and acute care surgery and highlight the issues related to the workforce, gender gap, patient outcomes, and health services. To effectively guide DEI interventions, it is essential to capture patient-reported experience data and stratify outcomes by factors including race, ethnicity, ancestry, language, sexual orientation, and gender identity. Only then can generalizable findings effectively inform DEI strategies. Using validated measurement tools, it is essential to conduct these assessments with methodological rigor. Collaboration between health care institutions can also provide valuable insights into effective and ineffective intervention practices through information exchange and constructive feedback. These recommendations aim to address the multifactorial nature of health care inequities in trauma and ACS. However, successful DEI interventions require a deeper understanding of the underlying mechanisms driving observed disparities, necessitating further research. Level V.

The objective of this integrative review was to critically synthesize the evidence on protective factors in early childhood that buffer the effects of exposure to intimate partner violence (IPV) on young children's health outcomes. Studies were eligible for inclusion in this review if the article was (a) in English, (b) title or abstract discussed protective factors, buffering, resilience or mitigating factors in early childhood for young children who experienced IPV. A total of 23 articles of 492 manuscripts identified from the search from peer-reviewed journals from 2010 to 2022 were included. Individual-level protective factors for young children exposed to IPV and include emotional self-regulation, child temperament and child self-esteem. Family-level protective factors were maternal physical and mental health; warm, responsive parenting; knowledge of child development; socioeconomic advantage; caregiver employment; and maternal education. The results of this integrative review highlight the critical importance of a dyadic approach to early childhood intervention. Health and legal systems should not only focus solely on pathology of family violence but also conceptualize treatment and courses of action from a strength-based perspective in order to empower victims of IPV, and promote the safety, health and well-being of children. Future research should examine the role of system-level protective factors. This review adds to the growing body of the evidence of positive relational health as a key social determinant of health for children. This will be foundational to design interventions that shield children from further harm and promote health, flourishing and recovery from violence and trauma.

This cross-sectional study investigated quality of life (QoL) and illness-related parental stress in children with kidney diseases by (1) comparing mean levels of these two variables between several kidney disease categories; (2) exploring correlations between QoL and parental stress; and (3) describing which disease category reports lowest QoL and highest parental stress. We included 295 patients with a kidney disease (0-18 years) and their parents, followed at 6 reference centers for pediatric nephrology. Children's QoL was assessed by the PedsQL™ 4.0 Generic Core Scales, and illness-related stress by the Pediatric Inventory for Parents. All patients were divided into 5 kidney disease categories according to the multidisciplinary care program criteria prescribed by the Belgian authorities: (1) structural kidney diseases, (2) tubulopathies and metabolic diseases, (3) nephrotic syndrome, (4) acquired diseases with proteinuria and hypertension, and (5) kidney transplantation. Child self-reports showed no differences in QoL between kidney disease categories, in contrast to parent proxy reports. Parents of transplant patients reported lower QoL in their child and more parental stress compared with the 4 non-transplant categories. QoL and parental stress were negatively correlated. Lowest QoL and highest parental stress scores were mainly found in transplant patients. This study showed lower QoL and higher parental stress in pediatric transplant patients compared with non-transplants, based on parent reports. Higher parental stress is associated with worse QoL in the child. These results highlight the importance of multidisciplinary care for children with kidney diseases, with special attention to transplant patients and their parents. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Gendered racism against Asian American women has become an increasing public health threat in recent years. Although  Following PRISMA Guidelines for Systematic Scoping Reviews, database searches were conducted for peer-reviewed articles. A total of 1,476 studies were title- and abstract-screened by two independent reviewers. Then, 148 articles were full-text screened for eligibility. A final sample of 23 studies was identified (15 qualitative and 8 quantitative). Only nine of the included studies explicitly used an intersectional framework. Results from qualitative studies revealed that Asian American women experience intersectional discrimination through fetishization, the ascription of passivity, invalidation through lack of representation and pervasive white beauty ideals, and workplace tokenization and scrutiny. Study findings suggested that Asian American women experience these forms of intersectional discrimination across multiple levels of influence (i.e., internalized, interpersonal, institutional, structural). Findings from both qualitative and quantitative studies also indicated how discrimination, whether explicitly or implicitly intersectional, contributes to adverse mental health outcomes such as body shame, disordered eating, depression, and suicidality. Studies also touched on common coping mechanisms employed by Asian American women when facing or anticipating discrimination, such as avoidance, shifting, proactive coping, and leaning on networks of support. There was a lack of studies using quantitative assessments of intersectional discrimination. Also, most studies did not include disaggregated data by ethnicity, age, sexual identity, religion, socioeconomic status, immigration status, or skin color, all of which are likely to shape their experiences. Our scoping review highlights how the marginalization of Asian American women is an urgent threat to their mental wellbeing. These findings are discussed to inform future research, interventions, and policy changes that prevent racialized and gendered violence against Asian American women.

Police violence is a growing public health issue in the USA. Emerging evidence suggests that negative police encounters are associated with adverse physical and mental health outcomes. There is a critical need to examine the relationship between police violence and health disparities. However, the lack of consensus on a conceptual and operational definition of police violence is a limitation in scientific investigations on police violence and its health impacts. Here, we present the protocol for a scoping review that maps definitions, measures and methodologies of assessing police violence in the health literature. We will comprehensively search PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature and APA PsycInfo databases. We will use the following string of key terms separated with the Boolean operator 'or': 'police violence', 'police brutality', 'police use of force', 'law enforcement violence', 'law enforcement brutality', 'law enforcement use of force' and 'legal intervention'. An English language limit will be applied. We will include studies published in English or that have an English language abstract available. Eligible studies will include: (1) a definition of police violence and/or (2) a measurement of police violence. This scoping review does not require ethical approval. The findings of this review will be disseminated through publication in a peer-reviewed journal and at conferences.

Various vaccines have been developed and distributed worldwide to control and cope with COVID-19 disease. To ensure vaccines benefit the global community, the ethical principles of beneficence, justice, non-maleficence, and autonomy should be examined and adhered to in the process of development, distribution, and implementation. This study, therefore, aimed to examine ethical considerations of vaccine development and vaccination processes. A scoping review of the literature was conducted based on the Arkesy and O'Malley protocol to identify eligible studies published until November 2021. We searched Web of Science, PubMed, Scopus, and SciELO databases. The search was conducted using combinations of Medical Subject Heading (MeSH) search terms and keywords for Ethics, COVID-19, and vaccines in abstract, keywords, and title fields to retrieve potentially relevant publications. We included any study that reported one of the four principles of medical ethics: autonomy, justice, non-maleficence, and beneficence in the COVID-19 vaccine development and distribution and implementation of vaccinations. Letters, notes, protocols, and brief communications were excluded. In addition, we searched gray literature to include relevant studies (ProQuest database, conferences, and reports). Data were analyzed using framework analysis. In total, 43 studies were included. Ethical considerations concluded two themes: (1) production and (2) distribution and vaccination. The production process consisted of 16 codes and 4 main Categories, distribution and vaccination process consisted of 12 codes and 4 main Categories. Moreover, the ethical considerations of special groups were divided into four main groups: health care workers (HCWs) (five codes), children and adolescents (five codes), the elderly (one code), and ethnic and racial minorities (three codes). Due to the externalities of pandemics and the public and social benefits and harms of vaccination, it is not feasible to adhere to all four principles of medical ethics simultaneously and perfectly. This issue confronts individuals and policymakers with several moral dilemmas. It seems that decision-making based on the balance between social benefit and social harm is a better criterion in this regard, and the final decision should be made based on maximizing the public benefit and minimizing the public harm.

Early and adequate antenatal care (ANC) has been shown to reduce maternal morbidity and mortality globally. Increasing evidence suggests that women's economic empowerment (WEE) is a critical factor that may influence uptake of ANC during pregnancy. However, existing literature lacks a comprehensive synthesis of studies on WEE interventions and their effects on ANC outcomes. This systematic review analyses WEE interventions at the household, community and national levels and their effects on ANC outcomes in low-income and middle-income countries, where the majority of maternal deaths occur. Six electronic databases were systematically searched as well as 19 websites of relevant organisations. Studies published in English and after 2010 were included. Following abstract and full-text review, 37 studies were included in this review. Seven studies used an experimental study design, 26 studies used a quasi-experimental study design, 1 study used an observational design and 1 study was a systematic review with meta-analysis. Thirty-one included studies evaluated a household-level intervention, and six studies evaluated a community-level intervention. No included studies examined a national-level intervention. Most included studies on household-level and community-level interventions found a positive association between the intervention and the number of ANC visits women received. This review emphasises the need for more WEE interventions that empower women at the national level, for the expansion of the definition of WEE to be more inclusive of the multidimensionality of WEE interventions and the social determinants of health, and the standardisation of ANC outcome measurement globally.

How hospital clinicians facilitate breastfeeding in the first 48-72 h is critical to breastfeeding exclusivity and duration. Mothers who discharge hospital directly breastfeeding are more likely to continue exclusively breastfeeding at 3-months. To assess the impact of facility-wide implementation of a physiological breastfeeding method (the Thompson method) on direct breastfeeding at hospital discharge and exclusive breastfeeding at 3-months of age. Multi-method design using interrupted time series analysis and surveys. An Australian tertiary maternity hospital. 13,667 mother-baby pairs (interrupted time series analysis) and 495 postnatal mothers (surveys). The Thompson method includes cradle position and hold, alignment of mouth-to-nipple, baby-led connection and seal, maternal fine-tuning for symmetry, and leisurely duration. We used a large pre-post implementation dataset and conducted interrupted time series analysis using a 24-month baseline period (January 2016 - December 2017); and a 15-month post-implementation period (April 2018 - June 2019). We recruited a sub-sample of women to complete surveys at hospital discharge and 3-months postpartum. Surveys were primarily used to measure impact of Thompson method on exclusive breastfeeding at 3-months, compared with a baseline survey conducted in same setting. Following implementation of the Thompson method, the declining trend in direct breastfeeding at hospital discharge was significantly averted by 0.39% each month relative to baseline (95% CI: 0.03% to 0.76%; p = 0.037). While the 3-month exclusive breastfeeding rate in the Thompson group was 3 percentage points higher than the baseline group; this result did not reach statistical significance. However, a subgroup analysis of women who discharged hospital exclusively breastfeeding revealed the relative odds of exclusive breastfeeding at 3-months in the Thompson group was 0.25 (95% CI: 0.17 to 0.38; p < 0.001), significantly better than the baseline group (Z = 3.23, p < 0.01) where the relative odds was only 0.07 (95% CI: 0.03 to 0.19; p < 0.001). Implementation of the Thompson method for well mother-baby pairs improved direct breastfeeding trends at hospital discharge. For women who discharged hospital exclusively breastfeeding, exposure to the Thompson method reduced the risk of exclusive breastfeeding discontinuation by 3-months. The positive impact of the method was potentially confounded by partial implementation and a parallel rise in birth interventions which undermine breastfeeding. We recommend strategies to strengthen clinician buy-in to the method, and future research using a cluster randomised trial design. Facility-wide implementation of the Thompson method improves direct breastfeeding at hospital discharge and predicts breastfeeding exclusivity at 3-months.

Today's working life is constantly changing, and work environmental risk factors can alter swiftly. Besides the traditional physical work environment risk factors, somewhat more abstract organizational and social work environment factors also play an ever-increasing role, both in preventing and causing work-related illness. This requires a preventive work environment management that can respond to rapid changes, and where the assessment and remedies rely more on employee participation than on predetermined threshold limits. This study aimed to investigate if the use of a support model (the Stamina model) for workplace improvements could render the same positive effects in quantitative measures that have previously been shown in qualitative studies. Employees from six municipalities used the model for 12 months. They answered a questionnaire at baseline and after six and 12 months, to detect any changes in how they characterized their current work situation and perceived their influence, productivity, short-term recovery, and organizational justice. The results showed that employees felt more influential in work situations related to communication/collaboration and roles/tasks at the follow-up compared to the baseline. These results are consistent with previous qualitative studies. We found no significant changes in the other endpoints. The results strengthen previous conclusions, namely that the Stamina model can be used as part of inclusive, modern, and systematic work environment management.

Although biomedical preprint servers have grown rapidly over the past several years, the harm to patient health and safety remains a major concern among several scientific communities. Despite previous studies examining the role of preprints during the Coronavirus-19 pandemic, there is limited information characterizing their impact on scientific communication in orthopaedic surgery. (1) What are the characteristics (subspecialty, study design, geographic origin, and proportion of publications) of orthopaedic articles on three preprint servers? (2) What are the citation counts, abstract views, tweets, and Altmetric score per preprinted article and per corresponding publication? Three of the largest preprint servers (medRxiv, bioRxiv, and Research Square) with a focus on biomedical topics were queried for all preprinted articles published between July 26, 2014, and September 1, 2021, using the following search terms: "orthopaedic," "orthopedic," "bone," "cartilage," "ligament," "tendon," "fracture," "dislocation," "hand," "wrist," "elbow," "shoulder," "spine," "spinal," "hip," "knee," "ankle," and "foot." Full-text articles in English related to orthopaedic surgery were included, while nonclinical studies, animal studies, duplicate studies, editorials, abstracts from conferences, and commentaries were excluded. A total of 1471 unique preprints were included and further characterized in terms of the orthopaedic subspecialty, study design, date posted, and geographic factors. Citation counts, abstract views, tweets, and Altmetric scores were collected for each preprinted article and the corresponding publication of that preprint in an accepting journal. We ascertained whether a preprinted article was published by searching title keywords and the corresponding author in three peer-reviewed article databases (PubMed, Google Scholar, and Dimensions) and confirming that the study design and research question matched. The number of orthopaedic preprints increased from four in 2017 to 838 in 2020. The most common orthopaedic subspecialties represented were spine, knee, and hip. From 2017 to 2020, the cumulative counts of preprinted article citations, abstract views, and Altmetric scores increased. A corresponding publication was identified in 52% (762 of 1471) of preprints. As would be expected, because preprinting is a form of redundant publication, published articles that are also preprinted saw greater abstract views, citations, and Altmetric scores on a per-article basis. Although preprints remain an extremely small proportion of all orthopaedic research, our findings suggest that nonpeer-reviewed, preprinted orthopaedic articles are being increasingly disseminated. These preprinted articles have a smaller academic and public footprint than their published counterparts, but they still reach a substantial audience through infrequent and superficial online interactions, which are far from equivalent to the engagement facilitated by peer review. Furthermore, the sequence of preprint posting and journal submission, acceptance, and publication is unclear based on the information available on these preprint servers. Thus, it is difficult to determine whether the metrics of preprinted articles are attributable to preprinting, and studies such as the present analysis will tend to overestimate the apparent impact of preprinting. Despite the potential for preprint servers to function as a venue for thoughtful feedback on research ideas, the available metrics data for these preprinted articles do not demonstrate the meaningful engagement that is achieved by peer review in terms of the frequency or depth of audience feedback. Our findings highlight the need for safeguards to regulate research dissemination through preprint media, which has never been shown to benefit patients and should not be considered as evidence by clinicians. Clinician-scientists and researchers have the most important responsibility of protecting patients from the harm of potentially inaccurate biomedical science and therefore must prioritize patient needs first by uncovering scientific truths through the evidence-based processes of peer review, not preprinting. We recommend all journals publishing clinical research adopt the same policy as Clinical Orthopaedics and Related Research® , The Bone & Joint Journal, The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, and the Journal of Orthopaedic Research , removing any papers posted to preprint servers from consideration.

Google Trends has been extensively used in different sectors from finance to tourism, the economy, fashion, the fun industry, the oil trade, and healthcare. This scoping review aims to summarize the role of Google Trends as a monitoring and a predicting tool in the COVID-19 pandemic. Inclusion criteria for this scoping review were original English-language peer-reviewed research articles on the COVID-19 pandemic conducted in 2020 using Google Trends as a search tool. Articles that were in a language other than English, were only in abstract form, or did not discuss the role of Google Trends during the COVID-19 pandemic were excluded. According to these criteria, a total of 81 studies were included to cover the period of the first year after the emergence of the crisis. Google Trends can potentially help health authorities to plan and control pandemics earlier and to decrease the risk of infection among people.

The representativeness of participants is crucial to ensure external validity of clinical trials. We focused on the randomized clinical trials which assessed COVID-19 vaccines to assess the reporting of age, sex, gender identity, race, ethnicity, obesity, sexual orientation, and socioeconomic status in the results (description of the participants' characteristics, loss of follow-up, stratification of efficacy and safety results). We searched the following databases for randomized clinical trials published before 1st February 2022: PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and Excerpta Medica. We included peer-reviewed articles written in English or Spanish. Four researchers used the Rayyan platform to filter citations, first reading the title and abstract, and then accessing the full text. Articles were excluded if both reviewers agreed, or if a third reviewer decided to discard them. Sixty three articles were included, which assessed 20 different vaccines, mainly in phase 2 or 3. When describing the participants' characteristics, all the studies reported sex or gender, 73.0% race, ethnicity, 68.9% age groups, and 22.2% obesity. Only one article described the age of participants lost to follow-up. Efficacy results were stratified by age in 61.9%, sex or gender in 26.9%, race and/or, ethnicity in 9.5%, and obesity in 4.8% of the articles. Safety results were stratified by age in 41.0%, and by sex or gender in 7.9% of the analysis. Reporting of gender identity, sexual orientation or socioeconomic status of participants was rare. Parity was reached in 49.2% of the studies, and sex-specific outcomes were mentioned in 22.9% of the analysis, most of the latter were related to females' health. Axes of social inequity other than age and sex were hardly reported in randomized clinical trials that assessed COVID-19 vaccines. This undermines their representativeness and external validity and sustains health inequities.

Preprints, versions of scientific manuscripts that precede peer review, are growing in popularity. They offer an opportunity to democratize and accelerate research, as they have no publication costs or a lengthy peer review process. Preprints are often later published in peer-reviewed venues, but these publications and the original preprints are frequently not linked in any way. To this end, we developed a tool, PreprintMatch, to find matches between preprints and their corresponding published papers, if they exist. This tool outperforms existing techniques to match preprints and papers, both on matching performance and speed. PreprintMatch was applied to search for matches between preprints (from bioRxiv and medRxiv), and PubMed. The preliminary nature of preprints offers a unique perspective into scientific projects at a relatively early stage, and with better matching between preprint and paper, we explored questions related to research inequity. We found that preprints from low income countries are published as peer-reviewed papers at a lower rate than high income countries (39.6% and 61.1%, respectively), and our data is consistent with previous work that cite a lack of resources, lack of stability, and policy choices to explain this discrepancy. Preprints from low income countries were also found to be published quicker (178 vs 203 days) and with less title, abstract, and author similarity to the published version compared to high income countries. Low income countries add more authors from the preprint to the published version than high income countries (0.42 authors vs 0.32, respectively), a practice that is significantly more frequent in China compared to similar countries. Finally, we find that some publishers publish work with authors from lower income countries more frequently than others.

Our conscious experience is determined by a combination of top-down processes (e.g., prior beliefs) and bottom-up processes (e.g., sensations). The balance between these two processes depends on estimates of their reliability (precision), so that the estimate considered more reliable is given more weight. We can modify these estimates at the metacognitive level, changing the relative weights of priors and sensations. This enables us, for example, to direct our attention to weak stimuli. But there is a cost to this malleability. For example, excessive weighting of top-down processes, as in schizophrenia, can lead to perceiving things that are not there and believing things that are not true. It is only at the top of the brain's cognitive hierarchy that metacognitive control becomes conscious. At this level, our beliefs concern complex, abstract entities with which we have limited direct experience. Estimates of the precision of such beliefs are more uncertain and more malleable. However, at this level, we do not need to rely on our own limited experience. We can rely instead on the experiences of others. Explicit metacognition plays a unique role, enabling us to share our experiences. We acquire our beliefs about the world from our immediate social group and from our wider culture. And the same sources provide us with better estimates of the precision of these beliefs. Our confidence in our high-level beliefs is heavily influenced by culture at the expense of direct experience.

The use of medications among pregnant women has been rising over the past few decades but the reporting of polypharmacy has been sporadic. The objective of this review is to identify literature reporting the prevalence of polypharmacy among pregnant women, the prevalence of multimorbidity in women taking multiple medications in pregnancy and associated effects on maternal and offspring outcomes. MEDLINE and Embase were searched from their inception to 14 September 2021 for interventional trials, observational studies and systematic reviews reporting on the prevalence of polypharmacy or the use of multiple medications in pregnancy were included.Data on prevalence of polypharmacy, prevalence of multimorbidity, combinations of medications and pregnancy and offspring outcomes were extracted. A descriptive analysis was performed. Fourteen studies met the review criteria. The prevalence of women being prescribed two or more medications during pregnancy ranged from 4.9% (4.3%-5.5%) to 62.4% (61.3%-63.5%), with a median of 22.5%. For the first trimester, prevalence ranged from 4.9% (4.7%-5.14%) to 33.7% (32.2%-35.1%). No study reported on the prevalence of multimorbidity, or associated pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to polypharmacy. There is a significant burden of polypharmacy among pregnant women. There is a need for evidence on the combinations of medications prescribed in pregnancy, how this specifically affects women with multiple long-term conditions and the associated benefits and harms. Our systematic review shows significant burden of polypharmacy in pregnancy but outcomes for women and offspring are unknown. CRD42021223966.

Nurses' common experiences of old age and intensive care: A qualitative study 

Patient-centred care is widely recognised as a core aspect of quality health care and has been integrated into policy internationally. There remains a disconnect between policy and practice, with organisations and researchers continuing to offer definitions and frameworks to suit the operational context. It is unclear if and how patient-centred care has been adopted in the acute care context. To understand the development of patient-centred care in the context of acute hospital settings over the past decade. A literature review was conducted in accordance with RAMESES standards and principles for meta-narrative reviews. Five databases (Medline, CINAHL, SCOPUS, Cochrane Library, JBI) were searched for full-text articles published between 2012 and 2021 related to patient-centred care in the acute care setting, in the context of nursing, medicine and health policy. Literature reviews and discussion papers were excluded. Articles were selected based on their relevance to the research aim. Descriptive and thematic analysis and synthesis of data were undertaken via an interpretivist process to understand the development of the topic. One hundred and twenty four articles were included that reported observational studies (n = 78), interventions (n = 34), tool development (n = 7), expert consensus (n = 2), quality improvement (n = 2), and reflection (n = 1). Most studies were conducted in developed countries and reported the perspective of patients (n = 33), nurses (n = 29), healthcare organisations (n = 7) or multiple perspectives (n = 50). Key words, key authors and organisations for patient-centred care were commonly recognised and provided a basis for the research. Fifty instruments measuring patient-centred care or its aspects were identified. Of the 34 interventions, most were implemented at the micro (clinical) level (n = 25) and appeared to improve care (n = 30). Four articles did not report outcomes. Analysis of the interventions identified three main types: i) staff-related, ii) patient and family-related, and iii) environment-related. Analysis of key findings identified five meta-narratives: i) facilitators of patient-centred care, ii) threats to patient-centred care, iii) outcomes of patient-centred care, iv) elements of patient-centred care, and v) expanding our understanding of patient-centred care. Interest in patient centred care continues to grow, with reports shifting from conceptualising to operationalising patient-centred care. Interventions have been successfully implemented in acute care settings at the micro level, further research is needed to determine their sustainability and macro level implementation. Health services should consider staff, patient and organisational factors that can facilitate or threaten patient-centred care when planning interventions. Patient-centred care in acute care settings - we have arrived! Is it sustainable?

In the last decade, research on "sexting" has undergone an exponential increase, giving rise to the publication of numerous studies clarifying its meaning, offering information of educational value, and favoring a good use of technology to prevent problems caused by this exchange of sexual information. The aim of this article was to analyze the production, performance, impact, and content of scientific articles evaluating the "sexting" thesaurus (title, abstract, and/or keywords) between 2009 and September 2019. Articles were sourced from two internationally recognized databases: Scopus and Web of Science. A scientometric study was then carried out on a sample of 641 articles that met the established inclusion criteria. The main findings indicate that "sexting" is a very recent research focus, but one in full growth phase, with scientific production related to the topic likely to double over the next few years. Although "sexting" has been researched worldwide, the scientific production of the US and American authors is the most notable. There were also some differences between the Scopus and Web of Science databases, mainly in the volume of production and the trend. However, the studies do show a common research line, "cyberbullying," and a common target population: adolescents. Therefore, the content analysis reveals that research on "sexting" is mostly carried out with adolescents and takes into consideration other themes such as cyberbullying, dating violence, and sexuality.

This article provides practical guidance on developing a comprehensible abstract, including those required for funding applications, conferences, and publication. In addition, we discuss and demonstrate the practicalities of editing and revising an abstract for conference or peer review and identify emerging formats that may be more relevant to nurses and researchers. This article has been informed by literature and the coauthors' respective experiences of preparing and reviewing abstracts for publication and conference presentation. Abstracts are a valuable tool to communicate the most important elements of the methods and results of a research project for a conference, manuscript, or even a research funding application. However, abstracts may often be an overlooked part of the dissemination process. An abstract determines whether or not a piece of research is relevant for presentation at a conference or valuable enough to be considered for peer review and subsequent publication. A strong and clearly written abstract positively predisposes reviewers of grant applications. Writing an abstract is arguably the most challenging component of academic writing, summarizing the results of a substantive research project in three to five sentences and positioning them concisely within the background and implications for future practice, policy, and research. A well-written abstract is clear, concise, and critical and requires time and revision to ensure success.

Research suggests that the Dynamic Appraisal of Situational Aggression (DASA) is a useful risk assessment instrument to identify individuals who might be at risk of aggression in mental health inpatient units. Although, risk assessment research has typically focused on an individual's risk of aggression, recent research has begun exploring whether the DASA could be used to assess the likelihood that a group of patients would be aggressive. While the DASA was useful for assessing whether an individual was likely to be aggressive, the group average score was not a useful indicator for the likelihood of aggression once the individual DASA score was taken into consideration. Unexpectedly, patients who were assessed as high risk on the DASA were more likely to be aggressive on settled units compared to unsettled units, which included other individuals whose risk was elevated. There is not enough evidence to suggest that the group DASA average improves the identification of aggression above the individual DASA score. INTRODUCTION: The Dynamic Appraisal of Situational Aggression (DASA) is an inpatient aggression risk assessment instrument. Recently, research explored whether the unit atmosphere, as indicated by a unit's average DASA score, was related to inpatient aggression risk, but failed to control for individual risk. Investigate whether the DASA unit average score or an interaction between the unit average and an individual patient's DASA score was related to the likelihood that an individual would act aggressively. Cox regression with repeated assessments and recurrent events was used to analyse 11,243 DASA risk assessments of 113 inpatients collected via retrospective file review. The unit DASA average score was not related to aggression towards staff. There was a negative interaction between the individual and the unit DASA average scores when identifying patient-to-patient aggression; high-risk patients engaged in less aggression when the unit average was heightened relative to units with lower DASA average scores. It is possible that there were more nursing interventions and/or patients engaged in greater self-regulation on unsettled units, thus reducing aggression. Currently, there is insufficient evidence to suggest that the unit average score should be used to supplement individual DASA scores to identify aggression risk.

Body-worn cameras are increasingly being used as a violence prevention tool in inpatient mental health wards. However, there is a dearth of research on their use in these settings, particularly when it comes to patient perspectives. This study aimed to explore the perspectives of patients, mental health staff, and senior management on body-worn cameras to identify the possible impacts of this technology in inpatient mental health settings. This was an exploratory qualitative study. We undertook interviews online and in-person on a number of acute inpatient wards across five mental health hospitals in England. Participants were recruited in-person, online via social media, and through professional networks. This study recruited 24 patients from acute wards, 25 staff from acute wards, six Mental Health Nursing Directors, and nine community-based patients. Semi-structured interviews were conducted online and in-person. Interviews were analysed using reflexive thematic analysis. Ethical approval was granted by the Health Research Authority. The subjective nature of how violence and aggression is defined shapes how staff and patients view the prospect of using body-worn cameras. Both staff and patients cited issues resulting from an underlying culture of mistrust in inpatient settings that leave staff and patients feeling unsafe. Body worn cameras may intensify power dynamics and undermine therapeutic relationships. Participants felt that engaging existing interventions and addressing systemic causes of violence and aggression should take priority over introducing body-worn cameras. There is no indication that staff or patients believe body-worn cameras will deter violence and aggression on inpatient mental health wards. They may serve as a tool for safeguarding and staff training, but there are still unexplored ethical concerns about their use and a lack of evidence to support use of this technology to deter violence in NHS mental health settings. Mental health patients & staff have complex perspectives on controversial body-worn camera technology @thekeiranwilson @unafoye @maddych4dwick @gbrennancafc @cityalan.

The etiology of congenital solitary functioning kidney (CSFK) is largely unknown but likely includes various risk factors. We performed a case-control study to compare exposure to environmental and parental risk factors during embryonic kidney development between children with CSFK and healthy controls. We included 434 children with CSFK and 1302 healthy controls from the AGORA data- and biobank matched on year of birth. Exposure to potential risk factors was investigated using parental questionnaire data. Crude and adjusted odds ratios (aORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated for each potential risk factor. Multiple imputation was used to deal with missing values. Confounders for each potential risk factor were selected using directed acyclic graphs. Maternal stress was newly identified as a risk factor for CSFK (aOR 2.1, 95% CI 1.2-3.5). Known associations with conception using in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection (aOR 1.8, 95% CI 1.0-3.2), maternal infections during pregnancy (aOR 2.5, 95% CI 1.4-4.7), smoking during pregnancy (aOR 1.4, 95% CI 1.0-2.0), and parental CAKUT (aOR 6.6, 95% CI 2.9-15.1) were confirmed, but previous associations with diabetes and obesity could not be replicated. Folic acid supplement use and younger maternal age seemed to reduce the risk of CSFK (aORs 0.7, 95% CI 0.5-1.0, and 0.8, 95% CI 0.6-1.0, respectively). Environmental and parental risk factors are likely to be involved in the development of CSFK and future studies should combine genetic, environmental, and gene-environment interaction analyses. Women wanting to become pregnant should consider optimizing their health and lifestyle. A higher-resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Tuberculosis (TB) and poverty are inextricably linked. Catastrophic costs of TB illness drive TB-affected households into worsening impoverishment and hamper treatment success. The WHO's End TB Strategy recommends social protection for TB-affected households to mitigate financial shock and improve TB outcomes. This scoping review maps the landscape of social protection interventions for people with TB and their households in low- and middle-income countries with high TB burden. A systematic search of Medline, Embase, PubMed, and Web of Science for relevant articles was performed, supplemented with a gray literature search of key databases. Articles were included if they described social protection available to people with TB and TB-affected households in a low- or middle-income country. Data were synthesized in tabular form, and descriptive narrative outlined the successes and challenges of the social protection interventions identified. The search identified 33,360 articles. After abstract screening, 74 articles underwent full text screening, and 49 were included in the final analysis. Forty-three types of social protection were identified, of which 24 were TB specific (i.e., only people with TB were eligible). Varying definitions were used to describe similar social protection interventions, which limited cross-study comparison. Intervention successes included acceptability and increased financial autonomy among recipients. Challenges included delays in intervention delivery and unexpected additional bank transfer fees. A wide range of acceptable social protection interventions are available, with cash transfer schemes predominating. Use of standardized definitions of social protection interventions would facilitate consolidation of evidence and enhance design and implementation in future.

In the machine learning subfield of natural language processing, a topic model is a type of unsupervised method that is used to uncover abstract topics within a corpus of text. Dynamic topic modelling (DTM) is used for capturing change in these topics over time. The study deploys DTM on corpus of electronic health record psychotherapy notes. This retrospective study examines whether DTM helps distinguish closely matched patients that did and did not die by suicide. Cohort consists of United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) patients diagnosed with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) between 2004 and 2013. Each case (those who died by suicide during the year following diagnosis) was matched with five controls (those who remained alive) that shared psychotherapists and had similar suicide risk based on VA's suicide prediction algorithm. Cohort was restricted to patients who received psychotherapy for 9+ months after initial PTSD diagnoses (cases = 77; controls = 362). For cases, psychotherapy notes from diagnosis until death were examined. For controls, psychotherapy notes from diagnosis until matched case's death date were examined. A Python-based DTM algorithm was utilized. Derived topics identified population-specific themes, including PTSD, psychotherapy, medication, communication and relationships. Control topics changed significantly more over time than case topics. Topic differences highlighted engagement, expressivity and therapeutic alliance. This study strengthens groundwork for deriving population-specific, psychosocial and time-sensitive suicide risk variables.

A recent review shows an interdependence between healthcare providers and relatives in the context of euthanasia. Belgian guidelines do focus on the role of certain healthcare providers (physicians, nurses, and psychologists), yet they hardly specify bereavement care services before, during and after the euthanasia. A conceptual model showing underlying mechanisms of healthcare providers' experiences regarding the interaction with and the provision of bereavement care to relatives of cancer patients throughout a euthanasia process. 47 semi-structured interviews with Flemish physicians, nurses and psychologists working in hospitals and/or homecare, conducted from September 2020 to April 2022. Transcripts were analyzed using the Constructivist Grounded Theory Approach. Participants experienced the interaction with relatives as very diverse, which can be visualized as a continuum ranging from negative to positive, depending on each unique case. The achieved degree of serenity was the main contributor in determining their position on the aforementioned continuum. To create this serene atmosphere, healthcare providers undertook actions underpinned by two attitudes (wariness and meticulousness), which are guided by different considerations. These considerations can be categorized into three groups: 1) ideas about a good death and its importance, 2) having the situation well under control and 3) self-reassurance. If relatives were not at peace, most participants said that they deny a request or formulate additional requirements. Moreover, they wanted to ensure relatives can cope with the loss, which was often experienced as intense and time-consuming. Our insights shape needs-based care from healthcare providers' perspective in the context of euthanasia. Future research should explore the relatives' perspective regarding this interaction and the provision of bereavement care. Professionals strive for a serene atmosphere throughout a euthanasia process to ensure relatives can cope with the loss, and the way in which the patient died.

This paper uses original Canadian survey data to compare support for and opposition to five energy-related climate policies. Results show that Canadians were very concerned about climate change and supportive of the policies. Variation in support and opposition was investigated using logistic regression. We tested models that associate climate policy support with a combination of one's ecological worldview, climate change attitudes, personal capabilities, contextual influences, and ascription of responsibility to take action on climate change, applying elements of Stern's (2000) theory of environmentally-significant behaviour and Patchen's (2010) model of climate change behaviour. We found that the more abstract policies attracted a different set of predictors than the more concrete policies. Females and parents showed increased support for the more abstract policies. Having an ecological worldview was a significant predictor of support for all policies but was obscured by other factors in a combined model. Cet article utilise des données d'enquête canadiennes originales pour comparer le soutien et l'opposition à cinq politiques climatiques liées à l'énergie. Les résultats montrent que les Canadiens étaient très préoccupés par le changement climatique et appuyaient les politiques. La variation du soutien et de l'opposition a été étudiée à l'aide de la régression logistique. Nous avons testé des modèles qui associent le soutien à la politique climatique à une combinaison de vision du monde écologique, d'attitudes face au changement climatique, de capacités personnelles, d'influences contextuelles et d'attribution de la responsabilité d'agir sur le changement climatique, en appliquant des éléments de la théorie de Stern (2000) sur le comportement significatif pour l'environnement et le modèle de comportement face au changement climatique de Patchen (2010). Nous avons constaté que les politiques plus abstraites attiraient un ensemble différent de prédicteurs que les politiques plus concrètes. Les femmes et les parents ont montré un soutien accru pour les politiques plus abstraites. Avoir une vision du monde écologique était un prédicteur significatif du soutien à toutes les politiques, mais était obscurci par d'autres facteurs dans un modèle combiné.

In 2019, there were 2.5 million reported cases of chlamydia, gonorrhoea and syphilis. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in the USA, young people aged 15-24 made up 61% and 42% of chlamydia and gonorrhoea cases, respectively. Moreover, the highest rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) were reported among college-aged students. In this paper, we outline our protocol to systematically review the published literature on, the use of STI/HIV self-test kits, increasing STI/HIV testing uptake, and stigma, access and confidentiality issues, among young adult college students in the USA. This scoping review will be conducted and reported according to the guidelines of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews. We will search electronic databases, OVID Medline, OVID Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, PubMed and CINAHL, for articles published in English from inception to the present. We will search other alternative sources such as ProQuest, Google Scholar and Google to identify grey literature. A two-step process will be used to identify eligible studies based on the defined inclusion criteria. First, the title and abstract of identified articles will be screened for possible inclusion. Second, full-text articles of relevant studies will be retrieved and screened for inclusion. Both screening steps will be done by two people independently. Finally, data will be extracted by two researchers working independently. Any arising disagreements will be resolved by consensus or by a third author. This study is a scoping review of the literature. Therefore, ethics approval is not required. Our plan for the dissemination of findings includes peer-reviewed manuscripts, conferences and webinars.

The study aimed to conduct a critical patent review to identify and explore the latest advances and therapeutic strategies using  The research was carried out in the free and online database Espacenet, using the descriptors "cancer" and " As observed in the reading of patents, the interest of pharmaceutical industries and researchers and the development of new products to fight cancer have increased in recent years. The main cannabinoids present in the patents are tetrahydrocannabinol, cannabidiol, and hemp. Moreover, the patents were classified and the main applicant countries were the United States followed by Japan, with a higher filing rate in 2019 and, mainly by the industry. In conclusion we can say that, the importance of parliamentary approval in the cultivation and investments that, in addition to bringing innovation to the industrial sector, enriches research in the area, contributing to the creation of new medicines.

Cultural competence resides at the core of undergraduate and postgraduate medical and health professional education. The evolution of studies on cultural competence has resulted in the existence of multiple theoretical frameworks and models, each emphasising certain elements of culturally appropriate care, but generally lacking in providing a coherent and systematic approach to teaching this subject. Following a meta-ethnographic approach, a systematic search of five databases was undertaken to identify relevant articles published between 1990 and 2022. After citation searching and abstract and full article screening, a consensus was reached on 59 articles for final inclusion. Key constructs and concepts of cultural competence were synthesised and presented as themes, using the lens of critical theory. Three key themes were identified: competences; roles and identities; structural competency. Actionable concepts and themes were incorporated into a new transformative ACT cultural model that consists of three key domains: activate consciousness, connect relations, and transform to true cultural care. This critical review provides an up-to-date synthesis of studies that conceptualise cultural competence frameworks and models in international medical and healthcare settings. The ACT cultural model provides a set of guiding principles for culturally appropriate care, to support high-quality educational interventions.

Internationally, research and policy agendas recommend that family caregivers of service users in mental health care be involved in care and treatment, to support the service user's recovery process. Family caregivers of service users in mental health care are often highly burdened. There is a lack of research-based knowledge about the experiences of family caregivers of service users in forensic mental health care (FMHC) and their involvement in care and treatment. This study indicates a persistent caregiver presence and/or caregiver advocacy in regard to care and treatment of the service user in FMHC. This study indicates that health care professionals (HCPs) might play a role in eliciting a persistent caregiver presence and/or caregiver advocacy. HCPs need to develop their collaborative skills and be more willing to listen to and understand caregivers' persistent presence and/or advocacy. HCPs need to be more skilled to understand caregivers' and families' living with the complexities of mental illness and offence. HCPs are encouraged to adjust the involvement of family caregivers in care and treatment to FMHC. Introduction There is a lack of research about experiences of family caregivers of service users in forensic mental health care (FMHC) and their involvement in care and treatment. Research shows that caregivers are burdened. Further knowledge is required, to provide a foundation for improving clinical practice. Aim To review research literature, to investigate existing knowledge about caregiver experiences and, secondly, caregivers' experiences of facilitators and barriers related to their involvement in care and treatment. Method Qualitative evidence synthesis undertaken in a thematic synthesis of thirteen peer-reviewed studies. Results The analysis identified three descriptive themes: violence against family; a great burden of responsibility; and difficult collaboration, together with an additional three analytical themes: bearing witness; persistent presence; and advocacy becomes necessary. Discussion Persistent caregiver presence and/or caregiver advocacy may be elicited by health care professionals' (HCPs') exclusion of caregivers from care and treatment. Caregivers' feelings of guilt in relation to the service user's offence may play an additional role in persistent presence and advocacy and, therefore, in HCPs' exclusion of them. Implications for Practice HCPs need to develop their collaboration with caregivers by their willingness to listen to caregivers to understand emotional complexities within families experiencing mental illness and offence.

This review aims to identify and map the usage, application, and context of occupational justice concepts and related terms by occupational therapists and occupational scientists in relation to parents and children when children are born preterm or admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit. Occupational justice concepts and related terms can inform occupational therapy practice at the individual level or as a wider social approach. However, the extent to which these concepts have been applied to parents and children, when children are born preterm or admitted to neonatal intensive care, is unknown. Studies must include 1 or more occupational justice concepts or associated terms in relation to the named population groups. Sources must be related to occupational therapy or occupational science. The review will follow the JBI methodology for scoping reviews and will be reported according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) and the PRISMA-S extension for reporting literature searches in systematic reviews. Several electronic databases and sources of gray literature will be searched, limited by publication year (2000 till the present day). The review will only include human studies and studies with a title or abstract in English. Book chapters will be excluded. Reference lists of included studies will be searched against pre-determined criteria. Evidence sources will be independently screened by a minimum of 2 authors, and evidence will be mapped on a pre-determined template. Open Science Framework https://osf.io/fgd7n.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Anti-, peri- and post-natal depression negatively affect the relationship between mothers and their children. At least half of cases of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression were missed and underdiagnosed by healthcare professionals (HCPs) including doctors, nurses and midwives. Previous qualitative studies considered women's experiences relating to anti-, peri- and post-natal depression separately from studies looking at the views of HCPs. There is a lack of research in Middle Eastern countries, despite the high prevalence of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first qualitative study investigating the experiences of both HCPs and service users regarding anti-, peri- and post-natal depression from the Middle East perspective, particularly in Oman. This study revealed that anti-, peri- and post-natal depression has been neglected in primary healthcare systems in Oman. The study explored many barriers and facilitators which have been identified by both HCPs and patients in identifying and managing anti-, peri- and post-natal depression in the primary healthcare system. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Nurses, midwives and doctors should develop an empathic screening procedure that allows for the discussion of mental health concerns and help-seeking behaviours with their patients. Training nurses and midwives in motivational interviewing, routinely screening mothers with any depressive symptoms, as well as providing public education programmes to increase mental health awareness, resources and access to a variety of mental healthcare alternatives, could be successful in recognizing and managing anti-, peri- and post-natal depression. INTRODUCTION: Anti-, peri- and post-natal depression is known to affect the relationship between infants and their mothers adversely. Previous studies have identified barriers and facilitators, reported by women and HCPs, related to the identification and management of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression. However, these studies considered the experiences of women separately from those of the healthcare professionals, even though their experiences of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression are interconnected. Additionally, there is a lack of research among people living in the Middle East, including Oman, which has one of the highest rates of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression globally. This study aimed to explore the views and experiences of HCPs and service users relating to anti-, peri- and post-natal depression from the Middle East perspective. A qualitative descriptive study using semi-structured interviews was conducted. This study took place at the Family Medicine and Community Clinic at the University Hospital and three selected primary healthcare centres in Muscat, between May 2020 and February 2021. Purposive sampling was used: 15 HCPs with 2-20 years of clinical experience in anti-, peri- and post-natal primary care and 13 pregnant patients plus 2 post-birth patients were interviewed. Audio-recordings were transcribed verbatim, and the anonymized transcripts were then entered into the qualitative data management software, NVIVO 12. A thematic approach was used to analyse the data. Four themes were identified in the data, namely: (1) making sense of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression; (2) how to deal with anti-, peri- and post-natal depression; (3) barriers to addressing anti-, peri- and post-natal depression in primary anti-, peri- and post-natal care settings and (4) bridging the gap: facilitators in detecting and managing anti-, peri- and post-natal depression. Improving the identification and management of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression in primary healthcare systems will require a whole-system approach with interventions at the patient, practice and comprehensive primary care team levels. The findings suggest implications for improving the identification and management of anti-, peri- and post-natal depression including an increased emphasis on mental health by enhancing the routine screening of mothers during the anti-, peri- and post-natal period, clearer referral systems, improving resources, providing training with regard to mental health and improving communication skills.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The Brøset Violence Checklist (BVC) has been widely translated and implemented in diverse mental healthcare settings to improve prevention of violence. It is valued as a brief but effective tool in clinical practice. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This review is the largest and most comprehensive international review of the BVC conducted in the 25+ years since the inception of the instrument in 1995. It integrates findings from existing studies and establishes that the tool has many impressive strengths considering the brief time investment required for completion. The review reveals that the tool has been used in more than 20 different countries around the world in a variety of mental health and other settings as both a risk assessment tool to guide clinical practice and as a formally structured intervention to minimize violence. There is much variation in how the tool is implemented and scored in different services. This variation questions its applicability as a resource and consistency and its use needs attention. This variation in use also limits the conclusions regarding best practices. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The review supports the use of the BVC as one part of the package for mental health services committed to preventive action aimed at reducing violence and coercion. The review identified that the patient perspective was often absent when completing the BVC, and so this should be considered as an option by services as part of a collaborative philosophy of care. INTRODUCTION: Existing literature on the Brøset Violence Checklist (BVC) is examined in the context of usability, implementation and validity to provide evidence-based recommendations on its application and identify opportunities for future development. To identify current knowledge on the BVC and guide clinicians and researchers toward the next steps in using this tool in clinical practice to prevent violence in healthcare settings. A scoping review approach with a meta-analysis supplement was adopted to broadly identify and map available evidence on the BVC and provide specific estimates of predictive validity in different contexts. Sixty-two studies conducted in 23 countries addressed the implementation of the BVC across various settings. Many studies adapted the original BVC, and the clinical utility was noted as an important feature. A meta-analysis of the original BVC format estimated a pooled area under the curve at 0.83 (95% CI 0.78-0.87) in a subset of 15 studies. The BVC combines high predictive validity and good clinical utility across a wide range of settings and cultures. It should continue to be incorporated into routine practice in mental health services focused on preventing violence and coercion. Development of collaborative approaches with service users involved in assessing their own risk of future violence.

This study aimed to quantify the total cost of violent firearm-related offenses in British Columbia in 2016 Canadian dollars over a five-year period, 2012 to 2016. The purposes of this study were to estimate the direct costs to the health care system and indirect costs to society for violent firearm injuries and deaths; and to estimate criminal justice system costs pertaining to firearm incidents. Human and economic costs to the health care system and productivity losses were calculated using health administrative datasets such as B.C. Vital Statistics and Discharge Abstract Database. Criminal justice system costs pertaining to firearm incidents were estimated by applying weighted average costs to aggregate expenditures using methodology consistent with that used by Statistics Canada. There was a total of 108 deaths and 245 hospitalizations resulting from violent firearm injuries. The total estimated cost of all violent firearm crime averaged $294,378,985 per year; human costs averaged $188,416,841 per year, where health care costs averaged $3,910,317 per year, productivity losses from workforce and household averaged $17,299,054 and $4,559,470 per year, respectively, and loss of life averaged $162,648,000; and $105,021,145 in criminal justice system costs, and $941,000 in programming costs. This study clearly demonstrates the significant cost of violent firearm injury in British Columbia and the impacts on the health care system, criminal justice system, and to society at large, particularly within the criminal justice system where the costs were significantly higher than health care.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Aggression towards caregivers is a global phenomenon in mental health care. Although attempts have been made to define aggression, there is no globally accepted definition. Discrepancies in defining aggression can lead to differences in judgement and a sub-par management of aggression. The fact that different disciplines work together in mental health care makes it an even more pressing matter as no research was found regarding a multidisciplinary definition of aggression. Currently, coercive measures, such as isolation, sedation or restraints, are the most common ways of managing aggression. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Mental healthcare nurses and psychologists defined aggression by previous experiences, and they also agree that there are no alternatives in managing aggression when non-coercive techniques do not work. Several opportunities and examples of best practice were given by the participants, but the consensus was that caregivers are in need of alternatives when they are face to face with acute aggression. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: It is vital for residential units to agree on a definition of aggression and acute aggression. It is our belief that this can aid them in preventing and de-escalating aggression as well as diminishing the use of coercive measures. Further primary research exploring the opportunities of non-coercive techniques, a multidisciplinary approach and the relationship between a workplace culture normalizing aggression and the mental well-being of healthcare workers is also needed. INTRODUCTION: Aggression by patients against healthcare workers is a global recurring phenomenon in mental health care. Discrepancies in defining aggression can lead to differences in judgement, which in turn causes difficulties in managing aggression. The multidisciplinary nature of mental healthcare makes a standardized definition an even more pressing matter. No studies, however, were found exploring the way different disciplines approach the definition of aggression. Although traditional methods of managing aggression rely on coercive methods, current research favours the use of non-coercive measures. The aim of this study was to explore the different ways mental healthcare nurses and psychologists define and manage aggression in a residential unit. A qualitative research design was used, consisting of interviews and focus groups. Transcripts were analysed using a reflexive thematic approach. Three major themes were found: (1) approaches towards defining aggression, (2) experiencing aggression and (3) managing aggression: the need for alternatives. In this study, aggression is defined by how aggression has been experienced, both mental health nurses and psychologists agree that there are no alternatives in managing aggression when non-coercive techniques do not work. Aggression is considered an integral part of the job indicating an "aggression-tolerating" workplace. Three implications for practice were identified: (1) It is vital for residential units to agree on a broad-based definition of aggression, (2) further primary research exploring the opportunities of non-coercive techniques and a multidisciplinary approach is crucial and (3) the relationship between a workplace culture normalizing aggression and the mental well-being of healthcare workers also needs further study.

Context: The first wave of COVID-19 in Calgary, Alberta health zone accelerated Primary Care (PC) integration. Specifically, it connected Family Physicians (FPs) with their counterparts in the broader health system to deliver wraparound patient care through a COVID-19 Integrated Pathway (CIP). A key element of the CIP included a data sharing platform that facilitated the provision of test results directly to the FP identified by patients. Public Health provided test results for all patients to the primary care system so they could be followed up by primary care to improve their outcomes. Objectives: To evaluate the CIP by describing its function and capacity to facilitate FP follow-up with COVID positive patients; and to inform refinement of the CIP for future use. Study Design: This abstract reports on the quantitative arm of a mixed methods study. Setting/Dataset: The Calgary Health Zone. Primary data were drawn from the Calgary COVID-19 Care Clinic (C4), a designated hub clinic for COVID-19 patients. Secondary data were drawn from provincially maintained records of hospitalization, emergency department visits, and FP claims. Participants: FPs and COVID-19 patients. Intervention: The data platform and PC attachment elements of the CIP. Outcome Measures: The characteristics of patients cared for via the CIP (age, sex, ethnicity, and risk-level); the proportion of patients without a FP who were attached to an FP; the number of patients followed by their FP in the community, and the number of specialist consultations made by FPs to support care, time from diagnosis to follow-up with PC/FP; ED and acute care utilization. Results: Between Apr. 16 and Sep. 27, 2020, 7706 patients were referred by the Public Health team to the C4 clinic. Of those, 51.4% were male, the median age was 36 y., and 86 deaths were reported. The majority of patients were referred to local PC networks where follow-up was conducted using the CIP: 3223 (43%) already had their own FP, 2448 (32%) were successfully attached to an FP, and 1899 (25%) of these patients were monitored by C4 physicians - these patients either did not have FP or their FP was not available to follow the patient. 8.6% of these patients visited ED and 3.1% were hospitalized. More than 80% of these patients had at least of 5 visits with their FP. Conclusion: Data suggest that the CIP facilitated primary care based management of patients with COVID-19.

Coffee is one of the most consumed beverages worldwide, and its production and consumption generate large amounts of by-products annually. Coffee by-products and coffee beans are rich in bioactive compounds of great commercial value, including potential applications as active ingredients in skin care products and cosmetic formulations. In addition, there has been growing interest in the use of natural ingredients for cosmetic purposes. Considering the importance of coffee in the world economy, its chemical constituents with potential for cosmetic and dermatological application, and the importance of patents for innovation and technological development, the present study aimed to review recent patents involving coffee and coffee by-product use in cosmetics. This review was carried out using Espacenet. The following inclusion criteria were established: patents that included the terms "coffee" and "skin" in the title, abstract and claims and belonged to the classification A61Q, which is related to the "specific use of cosmetics or similar toilet preparations" considering the International Patent Classification (IPC) or Cooperative Patent Classification (CPC). Considering the 52 patents analysed, the bean was the main way to obtain extracts (39), followed by green beans (7), silverskin (3), peel and pulp (1), pulp (1) and beans and leaves (1). The formulations are mainly intended for use in nonspecific areas of skin (29), eye areas (12), scalp hair (9) and lip skin (2) with claims of anti-ageing, moisturizers, sun protection, hair growth, anti-dandruff, etc. CONCLUSION: Coffee and its residues have high amounts of phenolic compounds, caffeine, fatty acids and other substances known to have important biological properties for the skin. Coffee and its by-products are promising ingredients to be incorporated into topical formulations, ensuring skin health benefits and reducing the environmental impact.

The aim of the present review was to extend research by reviewing international research regarding the communication between oncologists and oncology patients and the communication of bad news to oncology patients during the COVID-19 pandemic. Following the PRISMA guidelines a review of the literature was performed by searching PubMed, Scopus, and EMBASE bibliographic databases from inception to October 10, 2022. The search was limited to articles written in English. Two reviewers independently completed title and abstract, full-text screening, and data extraction. A total of five studies were deemed eligible for this systematic review. A narrative synthesis was undertaken. Of these five articles, three referred to the communication of bad news to patients by medical oncologists during the COVID-19 pandemic, whereas the remaining two referred to the transmission of bad news to patients by surgeons during the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and the social distancing measures imposed caused radical changes in the forms of communication in medical environments. The challenges faced by the oncologist in breaking bad news to cancer patients are highlighted in this systematic review, and the need for physician preparation prior to communication with the patient is emphasized. Overall, new studies are needed on the effects of distance communication on both health professionals and patients. New studies are also needed that would explore the perceptions of physicians and patients in Greece.

The objective of this mixed methods review is to examine the effectiveness and experience of social phone programs on loneliness and/or mood in community-dwelling older adults. There is a large and growing older adult population that is burdened with loneliness. Loneliness affects both physical and mental health, and it is, therefore, imperative to examine ways of mitigating experiences of loneliness. Social phone programs are being offered through multiple organizations as a way of increasing socialization and decreasing loneliness in older adults. There is a need to examine existing data on social phone programs to determine their effectiveness and optimize their implementation. Included studies will be original qualitative, quantitative, or mixed methods research, along with gray literature, examining the use of social phone programs to address loneliness and/or mood in older adults. A convergent segregated mixed methods approach will be used, in line with the JBI methodology for mixed methods reviews. Articles will be searched in selected databases, sources of clinical trials, and gray literature. No limits have been set for language or date of publication. Two team members will select studies through title and abstract screening and then full-text screening. Critical appraisal will be performed in accordance with the standard JBI critical assessment tools, although no articles will be excluded based on this appraisal. Quantitative articles will be synthesized using meta-analysis, while a process of meta-aggregation will be used for qualitative articles. The findings will be integrated into a final report. PROSPERO CRD42022335119.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Australia is a commonwealth of federated states and territories with each having unique mental health legislation. Victoria implemented advance statements based on legislation from overseas jurisdictions such as Scotland. The aim of this Victorian legislation was to underpin an individual's autonomy and decision-making in relation to treatment, particularly compulsory treatment. Advance statements allow individuals within the healthcare setting to document preferences for care and treatment during times of decompensated mental health, including informing nominated persons and preferences for recovery-oriented care; however, advance statements continue to attract barriers in their implementation and use. WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper focuses on legislation within one jurisdiction, Victoria, highlighting that several barriers to uptake exist, including uncertainty around the legal status of advance statements, the ideal setting to implement advance statements and concern around perceived consumer capacity to contribute to developing advance statements. There are substantial differences of opinion regarding adherence to treatment and recovery preferences contained within the advance statement, especially when decisions are made in the context of decompensated mental health. The Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF) model has been used to formulate recommendations in several other health studies, but to date has not been used to provide recommendations for greater implementation of advance statements. Implementation science is a contemporary research translation movement that seeks to identify factors and strategies that influence the adoption and integration of interventions like advance statements in real world settings. For this study it has been useful to identify barriers, consider implementation strategies and link this with policy frameworks to support practice change. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Our study revealed that real challenges exist for mental health clinicians in adopting advance statements despite them having a strong held intention to empower service users to play a greater role in their own treatment and care decisions. The facilitators identified in this study highlight the notion that advance statements, and the concept of supported decision-making are needed in contemporary mental health care. Implementation science can assist in identifying barriers and suggesting facilitators including enhanced training, incentivization of advance statement creation, and greater awareness of the overarching purpose and principle of advance statement creation. Continued support and training in implementing and maintaining advance statements is required if mental health clinicians are to drive the uptake of this important reform to mental health legislation. Training needs to be provided that will address attitudes, and strongly held beliefs that pose barriers to the use of advance statements. INTRODUCTION: Advance statements, also known as advance directives or psychiatric wills, provide individuals the opportunity to document care and recovery preferences during a period of mental ill health. Although the use of advance statements has gained momentum, little research has explored the factors that promote or hinder further uptake. To determine the factors that promote or hinder the uptake of advance statements. Cross-sectional online survey of healthcare workers (n = 190). Promoting factors include high perceived value of advance statements, particularly their role in recovery focussed care, while hindering factors include disagreement or responsibility for advance statement creation and legal status. This study indicates that several hindering factors or barriers to advance statement uptake remain, and until these factors are addressed future implementation is arguably hindered. In this paper, we have used the Theoretical Domains Framework (TDF) model to outline suggestions to address hindering factors to implementation and guide future implementation strategies for advance statement uptake and practice change. The ongoing uptake of advance statements requires tailored implementation strategies address hindering factors. Strong promoting factors, such as the shared belief in the advance statement model and its role in recovery focused care, should be considered a strong foundation for implementation strategies.

Firearm violence, whether intentional or accidental, affects families worldwide. Nurses often encounter firearm-related injury and death with little knowledge or preparation for dealing with firearm safety issues. The aim was to locate published research on nurse education in firearm safety and examine the preparation of nurses to deal with issues of firearm safety as a deterrent toward decreasing violence. The review included nurse perceptions of barriers and facilitators related to firearm safety in clinical situations. A literature scoping review for article identification, examination, and reporting was structured on the extended form of Arksey and O'Malley's 5-step design framework. Databases CINAHL, MEDLINE, Sociological Abstracts, PsychInfo, and ERIC were searched for articles in English language published between 2010 and 2021 that included nurses in the studies' samples. Searches were managed via Covidence®, a literature screening and data extraction tool. Two independent reviewers screened the articles retrieved from the databases by title, abstract, and full-text review. Data from selected articles were extracted onto a spreadsheet and critically appraised for eligibility. A search of healthcare databases resulted in identification of 645 articles, of which 15 met inclusion criteria. Seven of the 15 articles addressed nurse firearm safety preparation, and seven related to counseling firearm safety for suicide prevention. Main barriers included lack of standardized guidelines, inadequate knowledge, and discomfort discussing firearm safety with patients and families. The scoping review findings show a noticeable gap: nurse education addressing firearm safety is, for all purposes, non-existent. A need exists for evidence-based training within academic curricula and across acute and behavioral healthcare settings.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: International reviews have looked at therapy outcomes for patients on mental health wards, showing it is associated with reduced emotional distress and readmission. Reviews have not looked at which specific treatments are most effective. No review has been done in England and Wales for patients detained specifically under the Mental Health Act. The paper gives an overview of the limited evidence in England and Wales. The paper shows which therapies have been measured. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Larger studies are needed across all types of patient wards in England and Wales with random allocation to types of therapy and longer-term follow-up. More studies are needed where researchers are not aware of the therapy being delivered. More studies need to use a mixture of patient and clinician outcome measures. Outcomes should also measure incident, readmission and reoffending rates. More evidence is needed from patients who are female, non-white and who are diagnosed with depression and anxiety. INTRODUCTION: The efficacy of psychological interventions delivered under the Mental Health Act (1983) (MHA) in England and Wales is unclear. While meta-analyses have reviewed acute and forensic psychological interventions in wider geographical areas, there has been no review specifically in the unique MHA context. A systematic review was conducted of psychological outcomes for inpatients detained under the MHA in England and Wales. Diagnoses and type of psychological intervention were not restricted, provided a psychological outcome measure was used. Studies were identified through APA PsychInfo, MEDLINE, CINAHL and Academic Search using a combination of key terms. Data extraction included effect direction, statistical significance, intervention type, format and duration, study size, inpatient setting, control group and study quality. High-quality evidence was sparse. Some improvements were found in overall well-being, self-esteem, social functioning, problem-solving, substance use, anger, offending attitudes, fire-setting, violence, anxiety, depression, personality disorder and psychosis. However, the overall evidence base is lacking. Larger-scale randomized controlled trials are needed across secure, acute and learning disability inpatient settings in England and Wales with longer term follow-up, blind assessors and both self-report and clinician-rated measures, as well as incident, readmission and reoffending rates. Greater representation is needed of females, non-white groups and affective disorders. The efficacy of psychological interventions for inpatients detained under the MHA in England and Wales remains unclear. Clinicians are encouraged to use relevant outcome measures in relation to treatment goals, to monitor the efficacy of interventions being offered to this client group. This paper highlights the current body of evidence for psychological interventions in inpatient settings within England and Wales, which is an environment in which mental health nursing plays an important role in patients' recovery. This evidence is also particularly important as there is a shift in clinical practice to training nursing staff to deliver some of the low-intensity psychological interventions, such as behavioural activation, solution-focussed therapy and motivational interviewing.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: 'Leave' is a common occurrence for patients detained in mental health settings. The term covers multiple scenarios, for example short periods to get off the ward through to extended periods at home prior to discharge. Despite the frequency and importance of leave, there is very little research about how it is implemented and whether, and in what circumstances, it is effective. While there is legislation about leave in the Mental Health Act (1983) mental health services are free to implement their own policies or not to implement one at all. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The leave policies of NHS mental health services in England and Wales are highly inconsistent. The extent to which policies are consistent with guidance differs depending on which service is providing care. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: It is very likely that, because of inconsistencies between services and policies, practice also differs. Clinicians need to understand their responsibilities in the leave process to ensure that patients are supported in their recovery journey. Policymakers need to revisit leave policies in light of evidence from this study. INTRODUCTION: Considerable guidance is available about the implementation of leave for detained patients, but individual mental health services are free to determine their own policies. To determine how consistent leave policies of NHS mental health services in England and Wales are with relevant guidance and legislation. A national audit of NHS mental health services leave policies. Data were obtained through web searching and Freedom of Information requests. Policies were assessed against 65 criteria across four domains (administrative, Responsible Clinician, types of leave and nursing). Definitions of leave-related terms were extracted and analysed. Fifty-seven (91.9%) policies were obtained. There were considerable inconsistencies in how policies were informed by relevant guidance: Domain-level consistency was 72.3% (administrative), 64.0% (Responsible Clinician), 44.7% (types of leave) and 41.9% (nursing). Definitions varied widely and commonly differed from those in relevant guidance. Mental health professionals are inconsistently supported by the policy in their leave-related practice. This could potentially contribute to inconsistent practice and leave-related patient outcomes. To ensure patients are treated fairly clinicians need to be aware of their responsibilities around leave. In some services, they will need to go beyond their organization's stated policy to ensure this occurs.

Early detection of hypertension in children with autosomal polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) may be beneficial, but screening children at risk of ADPKD remains controversial. We investigated determinants of hypertension in children with ADPKD to help identify a subgroup of children at risk of ADPKD for whom screening for the disease and/or its complications would be more relevant. In a retrospective study including consecutive children with ADPKD aged 5-18 years and followed at Saint-Luc Hospital Brussels between 2006 and 2020, we investigated the potential association between genotype, clinical characteristics and parental phenotype, and presence of hypertension. Hypertension was defined as blood pressure > P95 during 24-h ambulatory monitoring or anti-hypertensive therapy use. Parental phenotype was considered severe based on age at kidney failure, Mayo Clinic Imaging Classification and rate of eGFR decline. The study enrolled 55 children with ADPKD (mean age 9.9 ± 2.2 years, 45% male), including 44 with a PKD1 mutation and 5 with no mutation identified. Nine (16%) children had hypertension. Hypertension in children was associated with parental phenotype severity (8/27 (30%) children with severe parental phenotype vs. 1/23 (4%) children with non-severe parental phenotype (p = 0.03)) and height-adjusted bilateral nephromegaly (6/9 (67%) children with bilateral nephromegaly vs. 3/44 (7%) children without bilateral nephromegaly (p < 0.001)). Severe parental phenotype is associated with higher prevalence of hypertension in children with ADPKD. Hence, children of parents with severe ADPKD phenotype may be those who will most benefit from screening of the disease and/or yearly BP measures. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. There is currently no cure, and the available pharmacological treatment focuses on treating the symptoms. This study aimed to analyze the pharmacological treatments for AD protected in the US Patent Office. The Matheo Patent software was used to search for patents granted in the 2010-2020 period in the USPTO database. The search strategy «Alzheimer» was used in title and abstract and the International Patent Classification (IPC) codes A61P* and A61K*. The selected patents were divided into six categories according to therapeutic target. Complementary information from scientific databases was used to determine the stage of investigation and efficacy of the patented molecules. In the analyzed period, 58 patents were granted: 10 directed to Aβ peptide metabolism and deposition, three to tau, seven to inflammation, nine to cholinergic, two to glutamatergic and 27 to other targets. More than 80.0% belong to holders from the USA, France, and Japan. The molecules Elenbecestat and LY3202626 decreased the burden of Aβ plaques without significant cognitive improvement, Donanemab is in Phase 3 clinical trial, and the FDA has designated it Breakthrough Therapy. CPC-201 and PXT864 demonstrated, in Phase 2, good tolerability and improvement of AD symptoms. Most of the inventions are focused on treating the earliest phase of AD. The most advanced treatments in their research are those focused on treating Aβ accumulation. More studies are needed to prove the efficacy of the patented molecules.

Globally, suicide is the fourth leading cause of adolescent mortality. Although post-primary school-based suicide prevention (PSSP) interventions are an evidence-based strategy for targeting adolescent suicidal thoughts and behaviors (STBs), PSSP effectiveness does not easily translate to school settings. Adolescents' perspectives on PSSP are particularly important for (1) intervention effectiveness and implementation in both research and practice, (2) addressing PSSP evidence-practice gaps, and (3) enhancing meaningful adolescent involvement in PSSP, yet there is a gap in understanding adolescents' experiences of engaging with PSSP. As such, this protocol outlines a meta-ethnography which will explore and synthesize adolescents' perspectives on engaging with PSSP interventions, as participants/end-users, intervention advisors, facilitators, and co-designers and co-researchers. The meta-ethnography protocol follows the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P) guidelines. The protocol was guided by the seven-stage process for meta-ethnography proposed by Noblit and Hare. Searches of PsycINFO, MEDLINE, Web of Science, CINAHL, ERIC, Scopus, and study reference lists will identify peer-reviewed studies. Gray literature will be identified by searches in ProQuest, British Library EThOS, and DART-Europe E-theses Portal. The main reviewer will initially assess the eligibility of studies based on title and abstract, with full texts reviewed by at least two reviewers. Findings of the included studies will be synthesized in line with Noblit and Hare's stages and evaluated using the Critical Appraisal Skills Program (CASP) checklist. To our knowledge, this is the first proposed meta-ethnography to explore and integrate the findings of qualitative studies exploring adolescents' perspectives on engaging with PSSP interventions. Understanding adolescents' experiences of engaging with PSSP will impact the field of PSSP in several ways by (1) enhancing research processes and intervention effectiveness and implementation, (2) informing decision-making and policymaking relevant to practice, (3) guiding meaningful adolescent involvement in PSSP, and (4) contributing to knowledge on the safety implications of engaging adolescents in PSSP. Finally, it is expected that the insights from this meta-ethnography will be widely applicable, given the growing demand for meaningful youth involvement in health-related fields. PROSPERO CRD42022319424.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), such as abuse, neglect, and household dysfunction, are associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and indicators of future CVD risk in adulthood, such as greater vascular stiffness. The impact of ACEs in adolescence is unclear, and understanding how ACEs relate to blood pressure (BP) and vascular function during early life is key for the development of prevention strategies to reduce CVD risk. We hypothesized that exposure to ACEs would be associated with changes in central hemodynamics such as increased vascular stiffness and higher BP during adolescence. This pilot study enrolled 86 adolescents recruited from the Children's of Alabama. A validated ACE questionnaire was employed, and ACEs were modeled both as a continuous variable and a categorical variable (ACE ≥ 1 vs. ACE = 0). The primary outcomes used are considered to be indicators of future cardio-renal disease risk: aortic augmentation index normalized to 75 bpm (Alx75, a surrogate for vascular stiffness), carotid-femoral PWV (m/s), and ambulatory BP patterns. Adolescents with ACE ≥ 1 had significantly higher Alx75 (ACE: 5.2% ± 2.2 compared to no ACE: - 1.4% ± 3.0; p = 0.043). PWV only reflected this trend when adjustments were made for the body mass index. Adolescents with ACEs showed no differences in ambulatory BP patterns during the 24-h, wake, or sleep periods compared to adolescents with no ACEs. ACEs were associated with higher AIx75 in adolescence, which is a risk factor for future CVD. Adolescence could present an opportunity for early detections/interventions to mitigate adverse cardiovascular outcomes in adulthood. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

People with disability report social support facilitates participation in physical activity. A scoping review explored social support strategies used to facilitate exercise participation for people with disability (aged ≥ 15 years) in community gym settings. Seven electronic databases were searched. Studies were screened for eligibility based on title and abstract followed by full-text review. Data were analysed using content analysis and narrative synthesis. Forty-two articles reporting data from 35 studies were included. Eight types of social support were identified: supervision (

After completing this activity, practitioners will be better able to:• Discuss the growing body literature emphasizing moderation and harm-reduction in patients with severe and enduring anorexia nervosa (SE-AN)• Outline and discuss the legal, ethical, and medical challenges inpatient providers face when treating patients with SE-AN. Patients with severe and enduring anorexia nervosa (SE-AN) present numerous clinical and ethical challenges for the hospital psychiatrist. Patients typically come to the hospital in a state of severe medical compromise. Common difficulties in the period of acute medical stabilization include assessment of decision-making capacity and the right to decline treatment, as well as legally complex decisions pertaining to administering artificial nutrition over the patient's objection. Following acute medical stabilization, the psychiatric consultant must decide whether psychiatric hospitalization for continued treatment is indicated, and if so, whether involuntary hospitalization is indicated. The standard of care in these situations is unclear. Pragmatic issues such as lack of appropriate facilities for specialized treatment are common. If involuntary hospitalization is not approved or not pursued, there may be difficulty in determining whether, when, and how to involve palliative care consultants to guide further management. These cases are complex and largely reside in a medico-legal and ethical gray area. This article discusses the difficulties associated with these cases and supports a growing body of literature emphasizing moderation and harm-reduction in patients with SE-AN. Physician-assisted dying (PAD) is also discussed.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination was introduced in the National Immunization Program (NIP) in Korea targeting girls aged 12 years to receive two doses of HPV vaccine to prevent cervical cancer. This study aimed to evaluate the factors that may influence parental decision to inoculate their daughters in Korea. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 2020 by interviewing the parents of 2,000 nationally representative girls eligible for HPV NIP. By the daughters' status of HPV vaccination, the probabilities for each variable were compared with evaluate the factors that could affect parents' decision to inoculate their daughters with HPV vaccines. Compared with parents who were not vaccinated with HPV, parents who were vaccinated with HPV were 2.40 times more likely to decide to vaccinate their daughters with HPV. Parents who regularly undergo cervical cancer screening were 1.39 times more likely to decide to vaccinate their daughters with HPV than parents who do not receive regular checkups. Parents' perceived knowledge and perceived risk had a significant impact on their decision to vaccinate their daughters with HPV vaccines. Parents who had strong belief that HPV vaccine is safe in terms of adverse effects were 10 times more likely to decide to vaccinate their daughters against HPV. Parental factors including HPV-related health behavior and awareness were found to be associated with parental decision to vaccinate their daughters against HPV. To improve HPV vaccine uptake at 12 years, it is required to improve parental awareness on HPV through public communication supported by scientific-based evidence. Parental HPV vaccination and maternal regular cervical cancer screening were positively associated with parental decision to vaccinate their daughters against HPV. Parents' perceived knowledge of HPV vaccination and perceived risk of cervical cancer play an important role in determining whether their 12-year-old daughters will be vaccinated against HPV.

Neonatal nurse practitioners have a strong presence in the neonatal intensive care unit and are primed to lead efforts to induce change related to health disparities. Underrepresented minority nurse practitioners offer valuable perspectives in the care of underrepresented minority patients. However, there remains a current racial and ethnic discordance between neonatal providers and patients. Efforts to eliminate health disparities must begin before nursing school. The current racial and ethnic composition of neonatal nurse practitioner faculty in comparison to students in the United States is unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine the racial and ethnic composition of neonatal nurse practitioner faculty and students in the United States and contrast this data with available data for the racial and ethnic composition of the neonatal intensive care unit patient population. This cross-sectional study used a nonexperimental survey to describe the racial and ethnic composition of neonatal nurse practitioner faculty and students in the United States. There was no significant difference in the racial and ethnic composition between neonatal nurse practitioner faculty and students. There were significant differences for all race distributions between neonatal nurse practitioner students and neonatal intensive care unit admissions. The discordance between neonatal nurse practitioner students and neonates in the neonatal intensive care unit is important in addressing disparities and begins before nursing school. Identification of barriers and strategies for recruitment and retention of underrepresented minority nursing students and faculty is needed. https://journals.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/pages/video.aspx?v=62.

Emergency medical (EM) response systems require extensive coordination, particularly during mass casualty incidents (MCIs). The recognition of preparedness gaps and contextual priorities to MCI response capacity in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) can be better understood through the components of EM reponse systems. This study aims to delineate essential components and provide a framework for effective emergency medical response to MCIs. A scoping review was conducted using 4 databases. Title and abstract screening was followed by full-text review. Thematic analysis was conducted to identify themes pertaining to the essential components and integration of EM response systems. Of 20,456 screened citations, 181 articles were included in the analysis. Seven major and 40 sub-themes emerged from the content analysis as the essential components and supportive elements of MCI medical response. The essential components of MCI response were integrated into a framework demonstrating interrelated connections between essential and supportive elements. Definitions of essential components of EM response to MCIs vary considerably. Most literature pertaining to MCI response originates from high income countries with far fewer reports from LMICs. Integration of essential components is needed in different geopolitical and economic contexts to ensure an effective MCI emergency medical response.

To evaluate Chinese parents' willingness to vaccinate their children against COVID-19, identify its predictors, and provide a reference for raising the COVID-19 vaccination rate for children. PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase, and the databases in Chinese, including CNKI, WanFang, VIP, CBM, were searched from December 2019 to June 2022, and citation tracking was used to identify relevant studies. To calculate the rate with 95% confidence intervals (CI), a random-effects model was used. To explore sources of heterogeneity, sensitivity analysis and subgroup analysis were conducted. This analysis was registered on PROSPERO (CRD42022346866) and reported in compliance with the PRISMA guidelines. Overall, 80 studies were screened, and 13 studies with 47994 parents were included after removing duplicates and excluding 19 studies that did not meet the selection criteria by title, abstract and full-text screening. The pooled willingness rate of Chinese parents to vaccinate their children against COVID-19 was 70.0% (95% CI: 62.0~78.0%). Level of education, perceived susceptibility of children infected with COVID-19, and parental attitudes toward vaccination (such as perceived efficacy and safety of the COVID-19 vaccines, parental willingness to vaccinate themselves, parental vaccination hesitancy, and the history of children's vaccination against influenza) were the main predictors of parents' intention to vaccinate their children. Chinese parents' willingness to vaccinate their children against COVID-19 is moderate, and factors including parental education level, perceived susceptibility of children infected with COVID-19, and parental attitudes toward vaccination affect this decision. Fully identifying these factors and their mechanism will be essential to further raise the willingness rate. https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/, identifier: CRD42022346866.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Prior research has demonstrated that childhood trauma can increase adolescents' suicidal ideation, and perceived stress plays a mediating role in the relationship between childhood trauma and adolescents' suicidal ideation. Character strengths, which are trait-like positive personality characteristics, have also been found to be closely related to decreased stress and suicidal ideation. However, it is unclear whether character strengths act as a transfer mechanism that links childhood traumatic experiences with perceived stress and eventually suicidal ideation. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study found that character strengths and perceived stress serially mediated the association between childhood trauma and suicidal ideation. Specifically, childhood trauma was associated with inferior character strengths, and the impaired character strengths further triggered high perceived stress, which was finally linked to a heightened risk of suicidal ideation. This study provided important theoretical implications for preventing suicidal risk among adolescents who are exposed to traumatic events during childhood. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This study highlighted the roles of character strengths and perceived stress in the relationship between childhood traumatic experiences and suicidal ideation, which provided suggestions for designing nursing interventions to reduce adolescents' suicidal ideation, especially for those with traumatic childhood experiences. In addition to family nursing, school-based regular monitoring and interventions of character strengths and perceived stress are necessary. ABSTRACT: Aim This study sought to examine the mediating effects of character strengths and perceived stress on the relationship between childhood trauma and suicidal ideation among adolescents. Methods A cross-sectional survey was conducted on a sample of 1069 Chinese adolescents. The Chinese versions of the Suicidal Ideation Scale, Childhood Trauma Questionnaire, Perceived Stress Scale and Character Scale for Adolescents were used to assess adolescents' suicidal ideation, childhood trauma, perceived stress and character strengths. Results The findings showed that childhood trauma influenced suicidal ideation directly and indirectly via perceived stress. Moreover, character strengths and perceived stress serially mediated the association between childhood trauma and suicidal ideation, implying that childhood trauma was associated with inferior character strengths, and the impaired character strengths further triggered high perceived stress, which was finally linked to a heightened risk of suicidal ideation. Conclusions This study highlighted the joint contribution of childhood trauma, character strengths and perceived stress to suicidal ideation, providing theoretical and practical implications to guide mental health nurses to reduce the suicide risk among adolescents. Implications for Practice These findings highlighted the importance of developing character strengths and stress-coping strategies. Family nursing and school-based regular monitoring and interventions of character strengths and perceived stress are necessary among adolescents who exposed to a high level of childhood trauma experiences to reduce their suicidal ideation and foster mental health.

Within bioethics, Kant's conception of autonomy is often portrayed as excessively rationalistic, abstract, and individualistic, and, therefore, far removed from the reality of patients' needs. Drawing on recent contributions in Kantian philosophy, we argue that specific features of Kantian autonomy remain relevant for medical ethics and for patient experience. We use contemporary end-of-life illness narratives-a resource that has not been analyzed with respect to autonomy-and show how they illustrate important Kantian themes, namely, the duty to know oneself, the interest in elaborating universalizable principles, and the emphasis on ideals as points of orientation that guide behavior without ever being fully realized. As Kant does, the patient-authors discussed here perceive the end of life as a moment to reflect on the constitutive principles which have governed that life, thereby offering a privileged moment to pursue self-knowledge. We argue that bioethical conceptions of autonomy stand to gain if they revise their conception of Kantian moral philosophy as too formal, abstract, and detached from emotions and personal relationships to be helpfully applied.

Most socio-epidemiological studies on diabetes incidence, prevalence, or hospitalization focus on individual-level risk factors. This population-based cohort study sought to advance understanding on the associations of contextual characteristics and risk of diabetes-related avoidable hospitalization (DRAH) among at-risk Canadians. A national cohort was compiled from the 2013/2014 Canadian Community Health Survey, representing 5.1 million adults aged 35 years and older, reporting having been diagnosed with diabetes, hypertension, or heart disease. Their information was linked longitudinally to hospitalization data from the 2013/14 to 2017/18 Discharge Abstract Database as well as to measures of geographic variability from the Material and Social Deprivation Index and the Index of Remoteness. Cox regression models were used to examine associations between the contextual indices and first occurrence of a DRAH. Residents in the most rural and remote communities were 50% more likely (hazard ratio (HR): 1.51, 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 1.26 to 1.80) to experience a DRAH than those in the most urbanized and accessible communities, and residents in the most socially deprived areas were significantly more likely (HR: 1.44, 95% CI: 1.26 to 1.65) to be hospitalized than those in the most socially privileged areas, controlling for individuals' sociodemographic characteristics and health behaviours. Neighbourhood material deprivation did not exercise a statistically significant influence on hospitalization risk after adjusting for the other residential characteristics. There is a clear and significant gradient in diabetes-related hospitalization risk among Canadians with an underlying cardiometabolic condition by degree of residential remoteness and of neighbourhood social deprivation, independently of individual characteristics and despite Canada's universal healthcare system.

Black/African Americans and Latinos face significant health disparities and systemic inequities. Heart and lung disease are leading factors affecting morbidity and mortality in these groups. Given this disparity, we sought to determine how often this topic is presented at the most relevant United States annual cardiothoracic surgery meetings. Specialty-specific annual meeting abstract books were queried between 2015 and 2021. We included the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Western Thoracic Surgical Association, and the Southern Thoracic Surgical Association. Scientific abstract titles and content were searched for the following keywords and phrases: "racial health disparities," "race," "racism," "racial bias," "institutional racism," and "health disparities". If an abstract included a keyword or phrase, it was counted as a racial health disparity abstract. We calculated the proportion of racial health disparity abstracts and abstracts published as manuscripts in the meeting-associated journals. A total of 3664 abstracts were presented between 2015 and 2021. Of those, 0.90% (33/3664) abstracts presented contained at least one of the keywords or phrases. Of these abstracts, the percentage that went on to publication represented 0.38% (14/3664) of the total number of abstracts presented. Abstracts on racial health disparities in cardiothoracic surgery represent a very small fraction of total meeting peer-reviewed content. There is a significant gap in research to identify and develop best practice strategies to address these disparities and mitigate structural racism within the care of underserved patients with cardiothoracic diseases.

Understanding which children are at highest risk for high blood pressure (HBP) can inform surveillance and treatment. This study evaluated sex differences in childhood HBP and its associations with socioeconomic status. This retrospective cross-sectional study assessed 74,233 children with data from a national primary care electronic medical record database. Differences between sex and material and social deprivation scores for children with and without HBP were examined. Covariates included age, BMI z-score, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and depression. HBP was defined as > 90 The prevalence of HBP was 10.2% in males and 7.6% in females (p < 0.0001). Children with HBP had higher BMI z-scores (0.66 vs. 0.18, p < 0.0001), and higher rates of diabetes (1.31 vs. 0.54%, p < 0.0001), depression (9.89 vs. 7.11%, p < 0.0001), and hyperlipidemia (2.82 vs. 0.86%, p < 0.0001). In univariate regression analyses, boys in the most materially deprived quintile had increased odds of HBP (OR 1.24 (95% CI 1.08-1.43)), whereas females did not (OR 1.11 (95% CI 0.95-1.29)). In multivariate regression, male sex was associated with HBP with adjusted OR of 1.39 (95% CI 1.24-1.55). After statistical adjustment, material deprivation was no longer significant (aOR 1.05, 95% CI 0.94-1.17). Male sex is associated with HBP in Canadian children. This study also suggests a possible association between material deprivation and HBP, particularly in boys. Further study is required to better understand this relationship. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

This systematic review was conducted to map the literature on all the existing evidence regarding individual and ecological determinants of maternal mortality in the world and to classify them based on the income level of countries. Such a systematic review had not been conducted before. We conducted an electronic search for primary and review articles using "Maternal Mortality" and "Determinant" as keywords or MeSH terms in their Title or Abstract, indexed in Scopus, PubMed, and Google with no time or geographical limitation and also hand searching was performed for most relevant journals. STROBE and Glasgow university critical appraisal checklists were used for quality assessment of the included studies. Data of the determinants were extracted and classified into individual or ecological categories based on income level of the countries according to World Bank classification. In this review, 109 original studies and 12 review articles from 33 countries or at global level met the inclusion criteria. Most studies were published after 2013. Most literature studied determinants of low and lower-middle-income countries. The most important individual determinants in low and lower-middle-income countries were location of birth, maternal education, any delays in health services seeking, prenatal care and skilled birth attendance. Household-related determinants in low-income countries included improved water source and sanitation system, region of residence, house condition, wealth of household, and husband education. Additionally, ecological determinants including human resources, access to medical equipment and facilities, total fertility rate, health financing system, country income, poverty rate, governance, education, employment, social protection, gender inequality, and human development index were found to be important contributors in maternal mortality. A few factors were more important in higher-income countries than lower-income countries including parity, IVF births, older mothers, and type of delivery. A comprehensive list of factors associated with maternal death was gathered through this systematic review, most of which were related to lower-income countries. It seems that the income level of the countries makes a significant difference in determinants of maternal mortality in the world.

Caregiver abstract talk during shared reading predicts preschool-age children's vocabulary development. However, previous research has focused on level of abstraction with less consideration of the style of extratextual talk. Here, we investigated the relation between these two dimensions of extratextual talk, and their contributions to variance in children's vocabulary skills. Caregiver level of abstraction was associated with an interactive reading style. Controlling for socioeconomic status and child age, high interactivity predicted children's concurrent vocabulary skills whereas abstraction did not. Controlling for earlier vocabulary skills, neither dimension of the extratextual talk predicted later vocabulary. Theoretical and practical relevance are discussed.

Experience of surviving intimate partner violence (IPV) is well documented in research, policing practices, newspapers, and awareness campaigns domestically and internationally. Arguably, those who have survived IPV and have their experiences reflected within society undergo a transformative experience of empowerment. As society recognises and validates their experience has occurred, and responds to it, accordingly, as some survivors have targeted services and interventions to assist in this transformation. However, for LGBTIQ-identifying peoples, experiences of IPV are poorly understood in contemporary society, which is further exacerbated for LGBTIQ-identifying CALD people as they continue to remain hidden. The systematic literature review aims to explore the experiences of this group in their development of resilience following an abusive and violent relationship. Of the potential 230 identified studies, 5 studies met the eligibility criteria. In line with the eligibility criteria, these studies were first reviewed by title, then by abstract and then by full text. Of those studies which the research team deemed relevant for inclusion, their reference lists where also reviewed to determine if any further relevant studies could be identified using this strategy. As a result of the above process, five (5) studies met the eligibility criteria and were included in the study. From data extraction, three major themes emerged:  Overall, the review found that resilient outcomes for LGBTIQ CALD survivors remain misunderstood and missing within the literature. There is a propensity to focus on negative coping strategies and an exclusive focus on LGBTIQ CALD vulnerabilities. Future research requires investigation into strategies and support that move beyond coping to include resilient outcomes and support systems that allow manifestations of resilience.

The objective of this review was twofold: i) to comprehensively identify the best available evidence about the experiences of women who smoked tobacco during pregnancy or postnatally (or both) concerning health care providers' interactions with them about their smoking, when such interactions occurred during contact for prenatal or postnatal health care in any health care setting; and ii) to synthesize the research findings for recommendations to strengthen health care providers' interventions regarding smoking during pregnancy and smoking during the postnatal period. Maternal tobacco smoking during pregnancy and maternal tobacco smoking postnatally pose serious health risks for the woman, fetus, and offspring, whereas maternal smoking cessation has beneficial health effects. Given the importance of health care providers' interactions with pregnant and postnatal women for smoking cessation care, it is essential to understand women's experiences of such interactions. Studies considered for this review had qualitative research findings about the experiences of women who smoked tobacco during pregnancy or postnatally (or both) in relation to health care providers' interactions with them about their smoking. The review was conducted using the JBI approach to qualitative systematic reviews. Published studies were sought through 6 academic databases (eg, CINAHL, MEDLINE). Unpublished studies were searched in 6 gray literature sources (eg, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, Google Scholar). Reference lists of retrieved records were also searched. The searches occurred in October and November 2020; no country, language, or date limits were applied. Study selection involved title and abstract screening, full-text examination, and critical appraisal of all studies that met the inclusion criteria for the review. Study characteristics and research findings were extracted from the included studies. Study selection and extraction of findings were conducted by 2 reviewers independently; differences between reviewers were resolved through consensus. The research findings were categorized, and the categories were aggregated into a set of synthesized findings. The synthesized findings were assigned confidence scores. The categories and finalized synthesized findings were agreed upon by all reviewers. The 57 included studies varied in qualitative research designs and in methodological quality (from mostly low to high). There were approximately 1092 eligible participants, and 250 credible and unequivocal research findings. The research findings yielded 14 categories and 6 synthesized findings with low to very low confidence scores. Some women who smoked tobacco during pregnancy and some women who smoked tobacco postnatally lacked supportive interactions by health care providers regarding their smoking; other women experienced supportive interactions by health care providers. Women were adversely impacted when health care providers' interactions lacked supportiveness, and were beneficially impacted when interactions were supportive. Women varied in openness to health care providers' interactions regarding their smoking, from not being receptive to being accepting, and some women wanted meaningful health care provider interactions. Although confidence in the synthesized findings is low to very low, the evidence indicates that supportive health care provider interactions may facilitate positive smoking behavior change in pregnancy and postnatally. It is recommended that health care providers implement accepted clinical practice guidelines with women who smoke prenatally or postnatally, using an approach that is person-centered, emotionally supportive, engaging (eg, understanding), and non-authoritarian. PROSPERO CRD42020178866.

Consideration of the Cultural Background as Part of "Spiritual Care" 

Tongue Lacerations in Children. The Zurich Tongue Scheme 

Optimal postoperative pain management remains a significant problem despite the availability of multiple preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative pain management interventions. Recent studies suggest that racialized minorities, female sex, and individuals of lower socioeconomic status (SES) are more likely to experience more severe pain and inadequate pain management postoperatively. Our systematic review aimed to determine race, sex, and SES differences in postoperative pain and postoperative pain management. This study is a systematic review of literature. Using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) methodology, we systematically searched 5 databases: Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Cochrane. We included primary source peer-reviewed articles published after 1990 that measured postoperative pain and race/ethnicity, sex/gender, or SES, which were published in English. Two pairs of reviewers independently screened each title, abstract, and article for inclusion. In cases of disagreement, a third reviewer broke the tie. A total of 464 articles were screened, of which 32 were included in this study. In most studies, Blacks/African American experience more severe postoperative pain than Whites/Caucasians. Whites were more likely to be prescribed opioids for pain management than Blacks, Hispanics, and Asians. Also, individuals of lower SES and females reported more postoperative pain. One study found no race/ethnic group differences in pain scores and opioid use after the implementation of the enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocol. Optimal postoperative pain relief continues to be a challenge for individuals who self-identify as racialized minorities, females, and those of lower SES. Standardization of care may help reduce disparities in postoperative pain management.

Achieving the 95-95-95 targets for HIV diagnosis, treatment, and viral load suppression to end the HIV epidemic hinges on eliminating structural inequalities, including intimate partner violence (IPV). Sub-Saharan Africa has among the highest prevalence of IPV and HIV worldwide. We aimed to examine the effects of IPV on recent HIV infection and women's engagement in the HIV care cascade in sub-Saharan Africa. We did a retrospective pooled analysis of data from nationally representative, cross-sectional surveys with information on physical or sexual IPV (or both) and HIV testing, from Jan 1, 2000, to Dec 31, 2020. Relevant surveys were identified from data catalogues and previous large-scale reviews, and included the Demographic and Health Survey, the AIDS Indicator Survey, the Population-based HIV Impact Assessment, and the South Africa National HIV Prevalence, Incidence, Behavior and Communication Survey. Individual-level data on all female respondents who were ever-partnered (currently or formerly married or cohabiting) and aged 15 years or older were included. We used Poisson regression to estimate crude and adjusted prevalence ratios (PRs) for the association between past-year experience of physical or sexual IPV (or both), as the primary exposure, and recent HIV infection (measured with recency assays), as the primary outcome. We also assessed associations of past-year IPV with self-reported HIV testing (also in the past year), and antiretroviral therapy (ART) uptake and viral load suppression at the time of surveying. Models were adjusted for participant age, age at sexual debut (HIV recency analysis), urban or rural residency, partnership status, education, and survey-level fixed effects. 57 surveys with data on self-reported HIV testing and past-year physical or sexual IPV were available from 30 countries, encompassing 280 259 ever-partnered women aged 15-64 years. 59 456 (21·2%) women had experienced physical or sexual IPV in the past year. Six surveys had information on recent HIV infection and seven had data on ART uptake and viral load suppression. The crude PR for recent HIV infection among women who had experienced past-year physical or sexual IPV, versus those who had not, was 3·51 (95% CI 1·64-7·51; n=19 179). The adjusted PR was 3·22 (1·51-6·85). Past-year physical or sexual IPV had minimal effect on self-reported HIV testing in the past year in crude analysis (PR 0·97 [0·96-0·98]; n=274 506) and adjusted analysis (adjusted PR 0·99 [0·98-1·01]). Results were inconclusive for the association of ART uptake with past-year IPV among women living with HIV (crude PR 0·90 [0·85-0·96], adjusted PR 0·96 [0·90-1·02]; n=5629). Women living with HIV who had experienced physical or sexual IPV in the past year were less likely to achieve viral load suppression than those who had not experienced past-year IPV (crude PR 0·85 [0·79-0·91], adjusted PR 0·91 [0·84-0·98], n=5627). Past-year physical or sexual IPV was associated with recent HIV acquisition and less frequent viral load suppression. Preventing IPV is inherently imperative but eliminating IPV could contribute to ending the HIV epidemic. Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the Canada Research Chairs Program, and Fonds de recherche du Québec-Santé. For the French, Spanish and Portuguese translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

words, terms not referring to here and now, are acquired slowly in infancy. They are difficult to acquire as they are more detached from sensory modalities than concrete words. Recent theories propose that, because of their complexity, other people are pivotal for abstract concepts' acquisition and use. Eight children (4 girls) and their mothers were observed longitudinally and extensively from 12 to 24 months of age. Video recordings of mother-infant free play with toys were done every two weeks in a laboratory setting with families in the USA. Children progressively use a range of words referring to abstract concepts, with a major shift from 12 to 15 months and again from 22 to 24 months, but the qualitative data testify an incremental growth of abstract concepts. We identified a progression in the acquisition of words denoting abstract concepts in relation to the overall productive vocabulary, suggesting that having more abstract terms in one's vocabulary promotes faster language acquisition.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: In the context of health and social care, situations at the limit or beyond the role of the professional, such as falling in love and physical attraction between a client and a nurse, are very common events. In residential contexts, the construction of the professional relationship is made more complex than in other care contexts since sharing daily life, routine, constant contact and isolation contribute to making relationships more intense from an emotional point of view. Moreover, the same elements that promote the therapeutic process (interpersonal closeness, self-disclosure, trust) are also sources of role ambivalence and possible emotional misunderstandings. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: In contrast to what is usually proposed in the literature for the management of similar situations, such as supervision by experts external to the team, this paper proposes a strategy of supervision between peers (called in literature "intervision") and of taking charge of the situation by the entire team and the group of service users. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING?: The story here presented offers a key example that may be of interest not only to residential centres for substance users but also to all residential mental health communities. It shows not only that one can fall in love, but that this event can generate new opportunities for the therapeutic pathway. The risks associated with not addressing these situations are discussed. These include the restriction of the feeling of falling in love within the canons of error; the attribution of what happened to personal characteristics and the assumption of guilt for such occurrences. INTRODUCTION: The care pathway within a mental health service can create situations of strong emotional impact, including physical attraction and falling in love. This may evolve in moments of impasse for the staff and sometimes compromise the success of therapeutic treatment. This article offers some evidence about how intervene in a situation such as a client falling in love with a nurse, avoiding transforming it into a problem. The fear of the nurse, maybe already inclined to blame themselves for what has happened, when he/she asks for supervision, is to feel judged also by the supervisor. This story teaches that to refer to figures from outside the team, as would usually be the case with supervision, may be replaced by enhancing the role composition already available in the residential community as a resource. The story was listened and enhanced thankyou to an exchange between M. and the community manager. From the analysis of the narratives co-produced by M., the former substance user, and the community manager, the elements that made it possible to transform a feeling of falling in love into an interaction of extended trust emerged. The non-judgmental and confidential context, but above all the training in interpersonal exchange, facilitated the client sharing very intimate and private experiences, which are usually hidden or denied. This made it possible to make the community responsible for the individual's experiences and to overcome the role impasse and the related identity dilemma. Neither nurses nor clients should be held accountable or blamed when these episodes occur. The strongest resource is sharing in the group and putting one's own experiences into play. Following the M. story, a targeted confrontation between team members and clients is an accessible and effective resource to respond to situations of strong emotional impact, falling in love being just one example; however, it can be effectively activated only through a collective taking charge of the individual's difficulties has already been implemented.

The immature neonatal fecal microbiota substantially impacts the development of gut health and greatly increases the risk of disease. Developing effective strategies to modulate the development of neonatal fecal microbiota has great significance. Herein, we investigated whether the maternal dietary supplementation and oral administration of Lactobacillus reuteri could effectively promote the development and maturation of the fecal microbiome in piglets from birth to weaning. Metagenomic analysis of colostrum showed that maternal dietary L. reuteri supplementation influenced the overall microbiota composition, decreased the abundance of the phylum Proteobacteria and increased that of the species Bifidobacterium choerinum. KEGG pathway analysis revealed that maternal L. reuteri supplementation enriched the lysine biosynthesis and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathways and downregulated the bacterial invasion of epithelial cells in the colostrum. In addition, L. reuteri supplementation significantly altered the metabolite features and modules in umbilical cord blood serum based on metabolomics. Further, a significant covariation was observed between these differential metabolites and the species in colostrum. Maternal dietary L. reuteri supplementation also significantly influenced the microbiota composition and increased the meconium abundance of beneficial bacteria (such as Romboutsia, Lactobacillus, Blautia, Butyricicoccus, and Ruminococcus), some of which were markedly associated with several differential metabolites in umbilical cord blood serum between two groups. Notably, both the maternal dietary supplementation and oral intake of L. reuteri had strong impacts on the overall microbial composition and maturation of fecal microbiota in piglets during early life, and these effects were dependent on the growth stage. Oral administration of L. reuteri promoted diarrhea resistance in neonates, while maternal supplementation of L. reuteri enhanced the abilities of antioxidants and decreased inflammation. Moreover, the administration of L. reuteri via both methods in combination improved the growth performances of piglets. Overall, our data demonstrated that L. reuteri had the ability to modulate the composition of fecal microbiota in newborn piglets by influencing the microbial community and functional composition in the colostrum and by altering several key metabolites in the umbilical cord blood serum. Also, both the maternal dietary supplementation and oral administration of L. reuteri effectively promoted the development and maturation of the fecal microbiome in piglets during early life. Both the maternal dietary supplementation and oral administration of L. reuteri in combination optimized the growth performances of piglets. Video Abstract.

During the SARS-CoV-2 global pandemic, one of the longest lockdowns worldwide occurred in Ontario, Canada, during the first wave. For parents and children managing care at home and at risk for COVID-19, the impact on their psychosocial functioning is unknown. A total of 122 families of children aged 2-18 years were enrolled as part of the prospective cohort of childhood nephrotic syndrome and completed a survey during the first wave of the pandemic (August 21-December 10), 2020. In a subset, 107 families had data available pre-pandemic to assess change. Validated measures included the McMaster Family Assessment Device (FAD) for parents and children ≥ 12 years for family functioning, the Patient Health Questionnaire for Depression and Anxiety (PHQ-4) for both parent and child, and Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PEDSQL™-V4) for children only. Scores were compared using Student's t-test or the Mann-Whitney U test, as appropriate. Among the 107 children, 71% were male with a mean age of 9 years old at the time of questionnaire completion, and the mean age of parents was 41 years old. Parents and children reported that family functioning improved during COVID (parent: p < 0.01; child: p = 0.05). Children's overall HRQOL declined (p = 0.04), specifically increased sleep disruption (p = 0.01). Increasing child age was associated with a greater sleep disruption (β =  - 1.6 [IQR: - 2.6, - 0.67]) and a related decrease in QOL (β =  - 1.0 [IQR: - 1.7, - 0.2]), adjusted for sex. Despite the positive effects of family dynamics during the first wave, there were negative effects of sleep disruptions and reduced quality of life in children, especially among older children. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

The health care transition (HCT) from pediatric to adult care is pivotal for childhood cancer survivors (CCS) and their parents. However, there is little research examining parental needs during HCT, despite this being a key predictor of successful HCT. The goal of this study was to investigate the needs of parents of CCS during HCT. Using an integrative review of the literature structured around the social-ecological model (SEM) of CCS transition readiness yielded 454 articles, including three hand-searched articles. Six articles were included in the final analysis. Data were extracted into nine factors derived from SEM. Articles were published within the last decade, largely qualitative, and mainly examined parents and CCS together. Parents most frequently mentioned relationships with their practitioner and CCS as contributing to HCT readiness, while abstract factors, such as goal-setting and expectations around HCT, were not mentioned. Our results are limited by the dearth of research on this topic, the homogeneity of samples, and joint presentation of CCS and parent data. Nonetheless, our results indicate that parents do not weigh all aspects of SEM equally, with macrolevel barriers, such as sociodemographic factors being viewed as less salient for HCT readiness. Parents mostly focused on interpersonal factors, such as their relationships with practitioners and CCS, indicating that practitioners should emphasize these in preparing parents for HCT.

We conducted a scoping review to evaluate the degree to which literature published within the past 5 years concerning mental health among Black emerging adult men in the USA engaged with intersectionality. Using scoping review methods, we applied the following a-priori eligibility criteria: (i) sample included Black/African American men who were aged 18-29 years, (ii) pertained to general mental wellness, depression, or anxiety, (iii) published within between 2017 and 2022, (iv) empirical and/or theoretical literature including reviews, pre-prints, and reports from organizations or professional groups, (v) conducted in the USA. In total, 1384 studies were identified from the databases, after which 224 duplicates were removed, resulting in 1160 unique citations that were screened in the title/abstract phase. Overall, 376 sources were assessed for full-text eligibility, and 20 studies were included for extraction. Information pertaining to sample characteristics, intersectionality, and main mental health results were extracted from the included studies. Findings from this review indicate that there is a paucity of research that has investigated the mental health of Black American, emerging adult men. Of the studies that have been conducted in recent years, there are few that have used an intersectional framework to examine how different social identities intersect to affect mental health. This review underscores that the mental health of emerging adult Black men is of considerable concern given the developmental stage, social and historical context as well as intersecting identities that men in this stage embody.

Online ethnography has been making a unique contribution to people with chronic conditions as a complement to offline ethnography. It can also be used to study the complexities and contingencies of people with chronic conditions in the context of the internet. Therefore, there is a need to synthesize existing knowledge on research activities concerning online ethnography for people with chronic conditions. This scoping review aimed to profile the existing evidence on the application of online ethnography for people with chronic conditions, focusing on the characteristics, contributions, and implementation process. This will provide recommendations for the future use of online ethnography. We followed the scoping review methodologies developed by Arksey and O' Malley and the Joanna Briggs Institute. A comprehensive search was conducted on the PubMed, CINAHL, Embase, Scopus, and PsycInfo databases using preselected keywords. The search was limited to documents written in English and published between January 1, 2000, and February 1, 2022. After removal of duplicates, articles were screened by 2 independent reviewers reading the title, abstract, and full text. One reviewer extracted data, which were descriptively analyzed to map the existing knowledge. After 2836 titles and abstracts and 51 full texts were screened, 27 publications were included in the analysis, published between 2009 and 2022. Most studies were from the United States (11/27, 40.7%), and most articles collected data from online forums (10/27, 37.0%). Moreover, the most commonly used type of researcher involvement was passive analysis (24/27, 88.9%), and 18.5% (5/27) of the topics concerned people with mental illness. Notably, the majority of articles did not report the immersion process in detail (17/25, 63.0%). Ethical issues were mentioned in 88.9% (24/27) of the included articles. We analyzed the current literature across fields and found that online ethnography can be exploited to explore the deeper experience of people with chronic conditions that are difficult to investigate using traditional ethnography. We found that there was diversity in researcher involvement, immersion process, data collection, and data analysis. However, most studies reported the insufficient immersion into the online environment. Researchers should determine the research approaches and data resources in order to complete culture immersion before researching. We also found that there was no uniform standard for ethical issues. Therefore, we recommend that researchers collect public and private data, obtain informed consent, and preserve the privacy and confidentiality of online users with chronic conditions. The findings can provide a practical reference for the use of online health care in studying chronic conditions.

This essay will discuss the hegemonic role that texts have come to play in the historiography of subcontinental mathematical traditions. It will argue that texts need to be studied as records of practices of people's working lives, grounded in social hierarchies. We will take particular mathematical texts to show how different occupational registers have come to shape practices that defy the binaries of concrete and abstract, high and low mathematics or the pure and applied conundrum. Measuring, counting and accounting practices as part of the routine work of practitioners performing their caste occupations then provide us with a spectrum of the computational activities that controlled and regulated the lives of people in the past. In the process the act of computing itself gained certain political values such as cunning and manipulation, identified with professions of village accountant and merchant, for example. Drawn from my earlier work on these records, I discuss the occupational role of the accountant as a political functionary who assessed and authenticated the measurements of land and produce in the village, making values of the labor performed by others, and creating avenues for his own proficiency as a mathematical practitioner.

A better understanding of the perceptions of family members in making surrogate decisions for loved ones during intensive care is needed to inform the development of targeted supportive interventions. To examine and synthesize qualitative data on family members' perceptions of surrogate decision-making in the intensive care unit. We conducted a systematic review and qualitative data synthesis. Eligible studies contained family members' quotes about surrogate decision-making experiences and perceptions in adult intensive care units, published in English or Chinese, in a peer-reviewed journal up to February 2022. Data sources included Embase, PubMed, ISI Web of Science, PsychINFO, CINAHL, Biomedical Literature Service System, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Wanfang Data, and VIP Journal. The searches yielded 5974 identified articles, of which 23 studies were included. At least two different reviewers independently assessed the study quality and extracted data into a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. A thematic synthesis was performed by classifying all text units into one of the broad themes and subsequently analyzed to inductively develop the first-, second-, and third-order themes. Six family members with experience in intensive care unit surrogate decision-making contributed to the analysis. The qualitative data synthesis resulted in five major themes. The following key new insights into family members' perceptions of surrogate decision-making in the intensive care unit were obtained: in individual systems, family members suffered from emotional distress and psychological stress; different cognitive styles emerged; some family members reshaped a new order of life in the disruption; in family systems, the family as a whole was closely connected with each other; and in medical systems families perceived asymmetry in relationships with clinicians, many factors influencing trust, the necessity for role-specific mediators and issues with operations and environments not being sufficiently humanized. This qualitative synthesis showed that individuals' emotions and cognition underwent complex processes during surrogate decision-making. The family as a whole, with disparate functional states, also faced different processes and outcomes under the crisis situation. At a broader level, the decision-making process reflected society's perceptions of the medical system. Future studies should use these insights to further explore and optimize the many aspects of surrogate decision support measures for families of critically ill patients and include the measurement of outcomes after interventions at multiple layers of the individual, family, and medical systems. The protocol was prospectively published on International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO)-CRD42022316687. Families of critically ill patients undergo a complex interactional process within the individual, family, and medical systems during surrogate decision-making.

Since becoming available, vaccines against COVID-19 have been a focus of public debate. This is particularly relevant among healthcare and social workers, who interact with vulnerable patients and clients on a daily basis. With employers implementing educational programs and offering incentives to raise vaccine willingness among their staff, it is crucial to understand drivers of vaccine acceptance and hesitancy as well as the impact employers can play on vaccine decision-making. We conducted a cross-sectional study  86.2% of respondents had received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. 13.8% were unvaccinated. Vaccinated respondents' main reason for getting the vaccine was to protect themselves (79.6%) as well as others (74.1%), while non-vaccinated respondents cited a fear of short or long-term side effects (58.8 and 42.4%, respectively) as their primary reason for not getting vaccinated. 72.8% of the unvaccinated said no incentive would make them change their mind, while 17.4% specified abstract concepts or systemic change as effective incentives. Monetary incentives were not seen as a motivator. Unvaccinated respondents were significantly more worried about the future than vaccinated respondents (78.8 vs. 26.3%,  While employers have the means to mediate public health decision-making by providing information, deciding to become vaccinated is a more complex process including public debate, world views, political influences, and the uptake of information. Employers can act as mediators for public health decision-making, moving policy measures beyond an individualized view of health choices and health literacy toward more structural, systemic, and community-based efforts.

The establishment of the gut microbiota in early life is a critical process that influences the development and fitness of vertebrates. However, the relative influence of transmission from the early social environment and host selection throughout host ontogeny remains understudied, particularly in avian species. We conducted conspecific and heterospecific cross-fostering experiments in zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) and Bengalese finches (Lonchura striata domestica) under controlled conditions and repeatedly sampled the faecal microbiota of these birds over the first 3 months of life. We thus documented the development of the gut microbiota and characterised the relative impacts of the early social environment and host selection due to species-specific characteristics and individual genetic backgrounds across ontogeny by using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing. The taxonomic composition and community structure of the gut microbiota changed across ontogenetic stages; juvenile zebra finches exhibited higher alpha diversity than adults at the post-breeding stage. Furthermore, in early development, the microbial communities of juveniles raised by conspecific and heterospecific foster parents resembled those of their foster family, emphasising the importance of the social environment. In later stages, the social environment continued to influence the gut microbiota, but host selection increased in importance. We provided a baseline description of the developmental succession of gut microbiota in zebra finches and Bengalese finches, which is a necessary first step for understanding the impact of the early gut microbiota on host fitness. Furthermore, for the first time in avian species, we showed that the relative strengths of the two forces that shape the establishment and maintenance of the gut microbiota (i.e. host selection and dispersal from the social environment) change during development, with host selection increasing in importance. This finding should be considered when experimentally manipulating the early-life gut microbiota. Our findings also provide new insights into the mechanisms of host selection. Video Abstract.

The phenomenon of inappropriate polypharmacy among the foster care population arises in part due to the challenges related to integrating trauma-informed principles into service delivery. It is further exacerbated by the complexity of intersecting systems in which child welfare case workers need to communicate, including foster and biological parents, social service agencies, and advocates. Yet, there is limited research about trauma-informed psychotropic medication management interventions for child welfare staff. This pilot study was conducted to evaluate a trauma-informed psychotropic medication management intervention and is reported in two manuscripts, pertaining respectively to the facilitators and barriers to learning, and perceived individual and institutional trauma responsiveness. The intervention comprised of a 2-hour-long training session for child welfare staff and a 3-month web-based curriculum for leadership personnel, aiming to increase their understanding of trauma-informed psychotropic medication management. In the first paper, we report on the facilitators and barriers to learning, grouped into three categories: teacher attributes, learner attributes, and situational factors. In the second paper, in addition to trauma responsiveness ratings, we also provide a detailed account of one participant's life experience and perceptions of the intervention provided, as an exemplar of the psychosocial facets of resilience. The ABC Medication Scale scores that measured staff knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors associated with medications used to treat mental health symptoms showed a significant change in scores following training. Based on these findings, we provide practical solutions to address situational factors that are worth considering when providing training for child welfare staff. PAPER 1 ABSTRACT: THE FACILITATORS AND BARRIERS TO LEARNING ABOUT TRAUMA-INFORMED MEDICATION MANAGEMENT: Given that foster care children experience many challenges that threaten their well-being, their physical and mental health needs tend to be greater than those of their peers who are not in foster care. However, owing to the transient nature of the foster care placements, as well as continuous changes in medical providers and counselors, the screenings, supportive interventions, and treatments they receive may be fragmented. This is particularly problematic when considering that many of these children are medicated as a means of managing their behavior. Moreover, children in foster care are also more vulnerable to having the medications and diagnoses accumulate due to frequent placement changes and lack of treatment continuity. Our research was guided by the question "What are the facilitators and barriers to learning about trauma-informed psychotropic medication management?" We developed an intervention to address the issue of inappropriate polypharmacy and examined the facilitators and barriers to learning using a mixed methods design. The facilitators to learning were instructor-specific (e.g., reputation, teaching style, capacity for selecting and implementing relevant resources), learner-specific (altruism, capacity to see personal relevance in the learning situation, desire for knowledge/competence, career advancement/recognition-seeking), and situational (immediacy/on-demand resources, reinforcement of pleasant learning experience). Barriers were largely situational (workload and family demands). Based on these findings, we provide practical strategies for addressing situational factors that are worth considering when designing training curricula aimed at child welfare staff.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The impacts of racism on health are well documented and are greater for mental than for general health. Mental health professionals are well positioned to help dismantle racism and structural barriers compromising optimal patient care. We describe a systematic and orderly way to identify factors that contribute to entrenching racism as the status quo or that help to uproot it. By incorporating a racial equity lens, we can better understand daily racism and inform the optimal antiracist actions most relevant to an inpatient psychiatric setting. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Our two-domain/six-theme model may serve as a rubric for individuals to engage in structured self-reflection, for organizations in auditing or programmatic evaluation, or as scaffolding for difficult but frequently elided conversations. The unique strengths of a mental health environment can be harnessed toward the elimination of racism and racist practices in clinical care and in the workplace ABSTRACT: INTRODUCTION: It is well documented that racism plays a role in health care access and outcomes. However, discussions about racism in the inpatient psychiatric workplace are generally avoided. To address this gap, we incorporated a racial equity perspective into a qualitative study to better understand daily racism, its impact on patients and staff, and to inform optimal antiracist actions most relevant to inpatient psychiatric settings. We sought to identify factors that may contribute to or deter from racism to inform interventions to sustain a psychologically supportive environment for patients and staff. We conducted semistructured interviews using a purposive sample of 22 individuals in an acute child psychiatric inpatient service. We analysed transcripts using thematic analysis guided by a constructivist grounded theory conceptual framework. We identified two countervailing processes: (1) Entrenching-factors that sustain or increase racism: Predisposing, Precipitating, and Perpetuating and (2) Uprooting-factors that rectify or reduce racism: Preventing, Punctuating, and Prohibiting. We organized each of the elements into a '6P' model along a temporal sequence around sentinel racist events. For each of the six components we describe: Contributing Factors, Emotional Reactions, and Behavioural Responses as reported by participants. Identifying factors that entrench or uproot racism can inform specific steps to improve the care of all children and families on an inpatient child psychiatry unit. The two-domain/six-theme model we developed can serve as a rubric for individuals or milieu-based inpatient settings serving patients of any age to engage in structured self-reflection, auditing, program evaluation, or as scaffolding for difficult but frequently elided conversations.

Support needs of caregivers of people with dementia: An integrative literature review 

An urban-rural comparison of family stress and early childhood intervention: Data linkage between two cross-sectional studies 

Worldwide, our societies are characterised by increasing diversity, which is greatly contributed to by people who have migrated from one country to another. To provide person-centred care, healthcare staff need to consider the personal background, biography and preferences of people with care needs. Little is known about the care preferences of older migrants and minority ethnic groups. The purpose of this planned scoping review is to explore and systematically investigate current research addressing the care preferences of older migrants and minority ethnic groups. In addition, gaps requiring further research will be identified. To the best of our knowledge, this scoping review will be the first to synthesise the literature regarding the preferences in nursing care of older migrants and minority ethnic groups. A scoping review will be conducted to identify and analyse the care preferences of older migrants and minority ethnic groups (population 60 years or older with various care needs). Based on the research aim, we will systematically search the electronic databases MEDLINE (via PubMed), CINAHL (via EBSCO) and PsycINFO (via EBSCO). We will include literature published in English and German with no restrictions regarding the publication date. The identified records will be independently screened (title/abstract and full text) by two reviewers. Data from the included studies will be extracted by one and verified by a second researcher. We will analyse the identified preferences with an inductive content analysis and will narratively present the review results in the form of tables. There are no ethical concerns related to conducting this study. We will discuss our results with practitioners in the field of nursing care of older people with migration backgrounds. We will present our results and make them available to the public at (inter)national conferences and in the form of peer-reviewed and practice articles.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Recurrence is common in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD). Psychological resilience has been shown to be a protective factor against recurrence of depression. It has important clinical nursing significance to analyse the influencing factors of psychological resilience in major depressive disorder in remission (MDDR) patients. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: There are few previous studies on the influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR. We found the education levels, personal monthly income, social support, well-being and self-efficacy were influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: According to the factors affecting the psychological resilience of patients diagnosed with MDDR, targeted clinical nursing is helpful to prevent the recurrence of depression. Nurses should strengthen the nursing of patients with <12 years of education, and patients with personal monthly income less than 5000 RMB. In addition, nurses should cultivate patients' awareness of social support and identity, cultivate their ability to strive for social support, cultivate interpersonal skills and positive emotional experience to improve subjective well-being and carry out self-efficacy training to improve psychological resilience by enhancing patients' internal protective factors. AIM: Psychological resilience is closely related to recurrence of depression. There are few previous studies on the influencing factors of psychological resilience in patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder in remission (MDDR). Here, we investigated the current status of resilience in patients diagnosed with MDDR and its influencing factors. A descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted from June 2019 to April 2021. One hundred and forty-two patients diagnosed with MDDR were recruited from the Department of Psychiatry and Psychology of the General Hospital of Northern Theater Command. Demographic information, social support, well-being, self-efficacy and psychological resilience were collected using self-reported questionnaires. The psychological resilience of MDDR patients was lower than that of the healthy Chinese adults in China. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that education, personal monthly income, social support, well-being and self-efficacy were associated with psychological resilience. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis further confirmed that social support, well-being and self-efficacy were associated with psychological resilience. The psychological resilience of MDDR patients was lower than that of the general population in China. The education levels, personal monthly income, social support, well-being and self-efficacy were influencing factors of psychological resilience. According to the factors affecting the psychological resilience of patients diagnosed with MDDR, targeted clinical nursing is helpful to prevent the recurrence of depression.

Acquired brain injury (ABI) is a leading cause of disability among children. An increasing number of programs have emerged to involve family members as an integral component of post-ABI rehabilitation. This study aimed to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of such programs among children with ABI. Following PRISMA guidelines, search among six databases (PsycINFO, PsycARTICLES, Scopus, Web of Science, PubMed, Cochrane CENTRAL) was conducted, followed by abstract/full-text screening and data extraction. Hedge's g was computed for effect sizes. The risk of bias was assessed using Cochrane guidelines. Meta-regression analyses were conducted on six moderators. A total of 32 studies (reported in 37 articles) were included in the qualitative analysis. Meta-analysis of 20 studies showed a positive small-to-medium effect of family-oriented interventions on child and parental outcomes but not on family functioning. Study design moderated the effect sizes of parent outcomes. This study synthesized the latest empirical evidence of family-oriented rehabilitation programs for pediatric ABI across interventional strategies, study designs, and outcomes. The findings suggested an overall beneficial impact of such programs on both the pediatric patients and their caregivers.

In the United States, racial disparities in adverse maternal health outcomes remain a pressing issue, with Black women experiencing a 3-4 times higher risk of maternal mortality and a 2-3 times higher risk of severe maternal morbidity. Despite recent encouraging efforts, fundamental determinants of these alarming inequities (e.g. structural racism) remain understudied. Approaches that address these structural drivers are needed to then intervene upon root causes of adverse maternal outcomes and their disparities and to ultimately improve maternal health across the U.S. In this paper, we offer a conceptual framework for studies of structural racism and maternal health disparities and systematically synthesize the current empirical epidemiologic literature on the links between structural racism measures and adverse maternal health outcomes. For the systematic review, we searched electronic databases (Pubmed, Web of Science, and EMBASE) to identify peer-reviewed U.S. based quantitative articles published between 1990 and 2021 that assessed the link between measures of structural racism and indicators of maternal morbidity/mortality. Our search yielded 2394 studies and after removing duplicates, 1408 were included in the title and abstract screening, of which 18 were included in the full text screening. Only 6 studies met all the specified inclusion criteria for this review. Results revealed that depending on population sub-group analyzed, measures used, and covariates considered, there was evidence that structural racism may increase the risk of adverse maternal health outcomes. This review also highlighted several areas for methodological and theoretical development in this body of work. Future work should more comprehensively assess structural racism in a way that informs policy and interventions, which can ameliorate its negative consequences on racial/ethnic disparities in maternal morbidity/mortality.

Suicide loss survivors often find it challenging to access professional help due to social stigma despite being at a higher risk of developing suicidal behaviour and mental health problems. Most available grief interventions are professional-led and heavily rely on help-seeking behaviour. Self-healing is a growing alternative intervention that is still relatively under-researched for suicide-bereaved individuals. This scoping review aims to determine the extent to which self-healing research has been undertaken, how well all subpopulations and geographical areas are represented, the methodologies used and outcomes associated with self-healing practices in suicide-related grief. The research gap in this area will be highlighted to inform future study direction. The proposed review will be guided by the methodological framework proposed by Arksey and O'Malley in 2015. Articles will be retrieved from CINAHL, Embase, MEDLINE, PsycINFO and Web of Science. Peer-reviewed publications that provide data on self-healing practices within the context of suicide loss survivors will be included. The research team will screen the retrieved articles through a two-step screening process: (1) Title and abstract screening and (2) full-text screening. The reporting of the scoping review will be done following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for scoping reviews guideline. This study does not require ethical approval because it will synthesise information from available publications. Results of this scoping review will be submitted for publication to a peer-reviewed journal and potentially be presented at relevant conferences.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination offers protection against the virus responsible for cervical, oropharyngeal, anal, vulval and penile cancers. However, there is considerable variation across, and even within, countries as to how HPV vaccination is offered and accepted. This review aimed to identify what interventions exist to promote uptake and how effective they are. We conducted an umbrella review using the JBI (Joanna Briggs Institute) methodology to evaluate routine or catch-up interventions to increase HPV vaccination uptake and/or intention for children aged 9 years and older, adolescents and young adults up to 26. Comprehensive searches for English language quantitative systematic reviews, published between January 2011 and July 2021, were conducted across five databases. After reviewing titles and abstract, relevant papers were independently assessed in detail. From 1046 records identified, 10 articles were included in the review. They reported on 95 randomised controlled trials, 28 quasi-experimental studies, 14 cohort studies, 6 non-randomised pretest/post-test studies with control groups, 5 single-group pretest/post-test studies, 1 single-group post-test study and 1 randomised longitudinal study. Some interventions promoted change at the individual, community or organisational level, while others used a multicomponent approach. Face-to-face presentations, printed information and supplementing both strategies with additional components appear effective at increasing vaccination intention, while reminders and multicomponent strategies, especially ones that include some intervention aimed at provider level, appear effective at increasing vaccination uptake. Interventions that did not lead to an improvement in HPV vaccination intention or uptake varied in design and impacts were inconsistent across children/adolescents, young adults or parents. The evidence suggests that there is no single solution to increasing vaccination uptake and that different approaches may be better suited to certain populations. However, generalisations are limited by poor reporting and a paucity of studies beyond the USA. Further high-quality studies, therefore, are needed to understand how best to increase HPV vaccination uptake in different target populations.

Estimation of genetic relatedness, or kinship, is used occasionally for recreational purposes and in forensic applications. While numerous methods were developed to estimate kinship, they suffer from high computational requirements and often make an untenable assumption of homogeneous population ancestry of the samples. Moreover, genetic privacy is generally overlooked in the usage of kinship estimation methods. There can be ethical concerns about finding unknown familial relationships in third-party databases. Similar ethical concerns may arise while estimating and reporting sensitive population-level statistics such as inbreeding coefficients for the concerns around marginalization and stigmatization. Here, we present SIGFRIED, which makes use of existing reference panels with a projection-based approach that simplifies kinship estimation in the admixed populations. We use simulated and real datasets to demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of kinship estimation. We present a secure federated kinship estimation framework and implement a secure kinship estimator using homomorphic encryption-based primitives for computing relatedness between samples in two different sites while genotype data are kept confidential. Source code and documentation for our methods can be found at https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7053352. Analysis of relatedness is fundamentally important for identifying relatives, in association studies, and for estimation of population-level estimates of inbreeding. As the awareness of individual and group genomic privacy is growing, privacy-preserving methods for the estimation of relatedness are needed. Presented methods alleviate the ethical and privacy concerns in the analysis of relatedness in admixed, historically isolated and underrepresented populations. Genetic relatedness is a central quantity used for finding relatives in databases, correcting biases in genome wide association studies and for estimating population-level statistics. Methods for estimating genetic relatedness have high computational requirements, and occasionally do not consider individuals from admixed ancestries. Furthermore, the ethical concerns around using genetic data and calculating relatedness are not considered. We present a projection-based approach that can efficiently and accurately estimate kinship. We implement our method using encryption-based techniques that provide provable security guarantees to protect genetic data while kinship statistics are computed among multiple sites.

How do gender stereotypes shape prototypes across development? In the current pre-registered study with children ages 3- to 10-years-old and adults (N = 257), participants made judgements about which members of gender categories (boys and girls) and animal categories (for comparison) were the most representative and informative about their kinds, using simplified scales of five category members varying on a stereotypical feature (e.g., girls wearing more or less pink). Young children chose boys and girls with extreme stereotypical features (e.g., the girl in head-to-toe pink) as both representative and informative of their categories and this tendency declined with age, similar to developmental patterns in prototypes of animal categories. Controlling for age, children whose parents reported more conservative social-political views also held more extreme gender (but not animal) prototypes. Thus, stereotypes play a central role in children's gender prototypes, especially young children and those living in socially-conservative households. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/Ps9BwuukyD0 RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Stereotypes play a central role in children's gender prototypes, especially young children and those in socially-conservative households. Children ages 3-10 and adults chose which girls, boys, and animals were most representative and informative. Younger children chose category members with more extreme stereotypical features (e.g., the girl in head-to-toe pink) than older children and adults. Children with more conservative parents also held more extreme gender prototypes.

To support evidence-informed decision-making, we created an evidence gap map to characterise the evidence base on the effectiveness of interventions in improving routine childhood immunisation outcomes in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). We developed an intervention-outcome matrix with 38 interventions and 43 outcomes. We searched academic databases and grey literature sources for relevant impact evaluations (IEs) and systematic reviews (SRs). Search results were screened on title/abstract. Those included on title/abstract were retrieved for full review. Studies meeting the eligibility criteria were included and data were extracted for each included study. All screening and data extraction was done by two independent reviewers. We analysed these data to identify trends in the geographic distribution of evidence, the concentration of evidence across intervention and outcome categories, and attention to vulnerable populations in the literature. We identified 309 studies, comprising 226 completed IEs, 58 completed SRs, 24 ongoing IEs and 1 ongoing SR. Evidence from IEs is heavily concentrated in a handful of countries in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Among interventions, the most frequently evaluated are those related to education and material incentives for caregivers or health workers. There are gaps in the study of non-material incentives and outreach to vulnerable populations. Among outcomes, those related to vaccine coverage and health are well covered. However, evidence on intermediate outcomes related to health system capacity or barriers faced by caregivers is much more limited. There is valuable evidence available to decision-makers for use in identifying and deploying effective strategies to increase routine immunisation in LMICs. However, additional research is needed to address gaps in the evidence base.

Excited delirium syndrome (ExDS) is a controversial and disputed diagnosis involving altered mentation, agitation, and, frequently, substance abuse. Recently, it has become a common pre-hospital diagnosis, serving as justification for use of force, restraint, and/or medication administration. To conduct a scoping review across three databases to describe the most frequently reported diagnostic criteria for ExDS, as well as to explore its use as a diagnosis for deaths of individuals in the custody of law enforcement. In 2021, three literature databases were searched: Ovid Medline, PsycInfo, and Scopus. Studies were included if they were peer-reviewed, English articles describing (1) ExDS symptoms, (2) substance intoxication with at least 2 ExDS symptoms present, or (3) centering on deaths occurring in the custody of law enforcement and attributed to ExDS. Key study data were extracted and the current literature was described qualitatively. Analysis took place between March and December 2021. A total of 97 studies were identified through initial abstract and secondary full-text review, with noted discrepancies in the definition of ExDS itself. After review, differences in ExDS diagnosis among organizations were explored, along with subsequent clinical impact, particularly in the pre-hospital setting. Resulting impact on patients, particularly those of minoritized ethnic and racial groups, was also noted. Prone aggressive restraint, in particular, is noted as an established risk factor for fatalities in ExDS cases. At this time, ExDS should not be utilized as a diagnosis; major medical organizations have an urgent responsibility to convene to formalize consensus-based diagnostic criteria or to propose alternate management guidelines for agitated and altered persons.

Care provided by an advanced practice nurse: Experiences of patients with sarcoma and family members. A qualitative study 

Experiences of Violence During Inpatient Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Treatment: An Explorative Study with Implications for Child Protection 

Seeking assent from children for participation in medical research is an ethical imperative of numerous institutions globally. However, none of these organizations provide specific guidance on the criteria or process to be used when obtaining assent. The primary objective of this scoping review was to determine the descriptions of assent discussed in the literature and the reported criteria used for seeking assent for research participation in pre-adolescent children. Medline and Embase databases were searched until November 2020 using the term "assent" in the title or abstract. Inclusion criteria were (1) studies enrolling children which specifically described operationalization of the assent process and (2) studies of the assent process which provided a description of assent. Data collected included participant information, patient criteria for seeking assent, guidelines referenced, description of assent reported, how assent was obtained and assent information presented, and reported assent rate. For qualitative articles focusing on the assent process, important themes were identified. A total of 116 articles were included of which 79 (68.9%) operationalized assent and 57 studies (%) described the assent process. The most commonly reported criterion used to determine the ability of a child to assent was age (35.4%, 28/79). The reported minimal age for obtaining pediatric assent varied considerably across and within jurisdictions (5-13 years; median 7.5 years, IQR 7.0, 9.75). Cognitive ability was reported as a criterion for obtaining assent in 5.1% (4/79) of studies. Assent rates were only reported in 17.7% (14/79) of citations and ranged from 32.0 to 100%. Analysis of the 57 studies describing the assent process identified several themes, including age thresholds, assessment of capacity, variable knowledge of pediatric assent and parental roles. We found significant variation in criteria used for assessment of patient capacity, delivery of information used to obtain assent and documentation of the assent process. While we acknowledge that individual children, settings and jurisdictions may require different approaches to obtaining assent, there should be agreement on important principles to be followed with resulting common guidance on assessing capacity, delivering information and documentation of the assent process for publication.

Childhood trauma is a proposed transdiagnostic risk factor for psychopathology, but epidemiological evidence from low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) is scarce. We investigated associations between trauma and child psychiatric disorders in a birth cohort in Brazil. The 2004 Pelotas Birth Cohort is an ongoing, population-based, prospective birth cohort, including all hospital births occurring between Jan 1 and Dec 31, 2004, in the city of Pelotas, Brazil. When the children were aged 6 and 11 years, trained psychologists administered the Development and Well-Being Assessment clinical interview to caregivers to assess current child psychiatric disorders (anxiety disorders, mood disorders, ADHD and hyperactivity disorders, and conduct and oppositional disorders), and lifetime trauma exposure (ie, experiencing or witnessing life-threatening events) including interpersonal and non-interpersonal events. Analyses used multiple imputation and logistic regression models. Of 4263 live births, 4231 children were included in the study sample, and 4229 (2195 [51·9%] boys and 2034 [48·1%] girls; 2581 [61·7%] with White mothers and 1600 [38·3%] with Black or mixed race mothers) were included in the imputed analyses. 1154 (34·3%) of 3367 children with complete data at age 11 years had been exposed to trauma by that age. After adjusting for confounders, at age 6 years, trauma was associated with increased odds of anxiety disorders (adjusted odds ratio 1·79 [95% CI 1·33-2·42]) and any psychiatric disorder (1·59 [1·22-2·06]), and at age 11 years, with any psychiatric disorder (1·45 [1·17-1·79]) and all four specific diagnostic classes of anxiety disorders (1·47 [1·04-2·09]), mood disorders (1·66 [1·08-2·55]), ADHD and hyperactivity disorders (1·47 [1·01-2·13]), and conduct and oppositional disorders (1·76 [1·19-2·61]). Interpersonal trauma and non-interpersonal trauma were each associated with increased odds of multiple psychiatric disorders, even when adjusting for their co-occurrence. A considerable mental health burden associated with childhood trauma is already evident by middle childhood in this sample from Brazil. Evidence-based efforts to reduce the incidence of childhood trauma in Brazil and address its consequences are urgently needed. Children's Pastorate, WHO, National Support Program for Centres of Excellence, Brazilian National Research Council, Brazilian Ministry of Health, São Paulo Research Foundation, University of Bath, Wellcome Trust. For the Portuguese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Mealtime changes in pregnant mice revealed impaired neurobehavioral development in mouse offspring. This study is the basis for investigating diseases associated with neurobehavioral development of adult offspring of pregnant shift-working women. Most organisms on Earth have a biological clock, and their physiological processes are regulated by a 1-day cycle. In modern society, several factors can disturb these biological clocks in humans; in particular, individuals working in shifts are exposed to stark environmental changes that interfere with their biological clock. They have a high risk of various diseases. However, there are scarce experimental approaches to address the reproductive and health consequences of shift work in the offspring of exposed individuals. In this study, considering the fact that shift workers usually have their meals during their adjusted working time, we aimed to examine the effects of a 12-h shift with usual mealtime as a plausible night work model on the neurobehavioral development of adult mouse offspring. In these offspring, early exposure to this mealtime shift differentially affected circadian rhythmic variables and total locomotor activity depending on the timing and duration of restrictive feeding. Moreover, neurobehavioral alterations such as declined short-term memory and depressive-like behavior were observed in adulthood. These results have implications for the health concerns of shift-working women and their children.

This study aims to identify and codify the facilitators and barriers to help implementing partners institutionalize health technology assessment (HTA) successfully and navigate complex systems for health-related policy making. We searched for peer-reviewed and gray literature articles examining HTA programs globally using six databases. Keywords used as a guide for capturing articles included "health technology assessment," "barrier," and "facilitator" and their synonyms. Search results were scrutinized for duplicates and screened through a review of titles and abstracts. A full-text review was conducted exploring articles' coverage of twenty-seven evaluation criteria across four primary areas of interest: barriers/facilitators, motivations, guidelines, and institutional frameworks. A total of 18,599 records were identified for duplication check, title, and abstract review. A total of 1,594 articles underwent full-text review, leading to a final synthesis of 262 studies. We found that ninety-seven articles discussed barriers/facilitators, with fifty-three of those discussing local capacity and unavailable human resources. Out of the sixty-six articles discussing motivations, forty-two cited the interest in supporting the decision-making process for, and promoting, appropriate resource allocation. Of the sixty-one articles that discussed guidelines and institutional framework, twenty-one articles described HTA as an independent national unit, and sixteen described their HTA unit as a unit within the Ministry of Health (MOH). This systematic review unpacks the dynamic and relevant contexts for understanding the HTA institutionalization process to help policy makers and practitioners achieve tangible progress in confronting the most critical issues facing priority setting and HTA institutionalization.

To describe first author gender differences and characteristics in 1) Society for Academic Emergency Medicine (SAEM) Annual Meeting abstracts and 2) resulting manuscript publications. We performed cross-sectional evaluation of SAEM abstracts from 1990, 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010, 2015, and 2020, compiling and reviewing a random sample of 100 abstracts for each year (total n = 700 abstracts). We documented abstract characteristics, including first author gender, and used the 2020 SAEM scoring rubric. We then searched PubMed to identify manuscript publications resulting from abstracts from 1990 to 2015 (n = 600). Finally, among abstracts that resulted in manuscript publication, we identified first and last author gender on both the abstracts and the resulting publication. Overall, 29% (202/695; n = 5 missing gender) of abstracts had female first authors. Female first authors increased over time (e.g., 17% in 1990 to 35% in 2020). Abstract quality scores were similar (both median [interquartile range] of 11 ([9-12]). Overall, 42% (n = 254/600) of abstracts resulted in a manuscript publication, 39% (n = 65/202) with female and 44% (n = 189/493) with male first authors (p = 0.26). The median time (IQR) from abstract to manuscript publication was longer for abstracts with female first authors vs. those with male first authors (2 [1-3] years and 1 [1, 2] years, p < 0.02); 77% and 78% of publications resulting from abstracts with female and male first authors, respectively, had the same first author. Female first author abstracts more often converted to a male first author manuscript publication (18%, n = 12/65) compared to male first author abstracts converting to female first author publications (7%, n = 14/189). A minority of SAEM abstracts, and manuscript publications resulting from them, had female first authors. Abstracts with female first authors took longer to achieve manuscript publication, and almost a fifth of female first author abstracts resulted in male first author manuscript publication.

In this paper, a defused decision boundary which renders misclassification issues due to the presence of cross-pairs is investigated. Cross-pairs retain cumulative attributes of both classes and misguide the classifier due to the defused data samples' nature. To tackle the problem of the defused data, a Tomek Links technique targets the cross-pair majority class and is removed, which results in an affine-segregated decision boundary. In order to cope with a Theft Case scenario, theft data is ascertained and synthesized randomly by using six theft data variants. Theft data variants are benign class appertaining data samples which are modified and manipulated to synthesize malicious samples. Furthermore, a K-means minority oversampling technique is used to tackle the class imbalance issue. In addition, to enhance the detection of the classifier, abstract features are engineered using a stochastic feature engineering mechanism. Moreover, to carry out affine training of the model, balanced data are inputted in order to mitigate class imbalance issues. An integrated hybrid model consisting of Bi-Directional Gated Recurrent Units and Bi-Directional Long-Term Short-Term Memory classifies the consumers, efficiently. Afterwards, robustness performance of the model is verified using an attack vector which is subjected to intervene in the model's efficiency and integrity. However, the proposed model performs efficiently on such unseen attack vectors.

This integrative review aims to evaluate the experiences of health and social care practitioners with regard to how they exercise professional curiosity in child protection practice. Professional curiosity gained significant currency following the Munro Review of Child Protection (2010) in England, as a means of seeking clarity on what is happening within a family. However, a recurrent finding from child safeguarding practice reviews is that practitioners continue to struggle to exercise curiosity. This is evident within both the United Kingdom and international literature, although descriptors for the concept may differ. This study attempted to identify facilitators and barriers to applying professional curiosity to provide a greater understanding of this theoretical concept. Title and abstract review of 1428 articles identified from databases and 11 from other sources resulted in 52 papers for full-text review. The quality of each article was appraised using the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme tool for qualitative studies, the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool (MMAT) for quantitative/mixed method studies and the Joanna Briggs framework for theoretical/opinion papers. Key findings were recorded in the Summary Table of Literature Reviewed. Data extracts were thematically analysed. Twenty-four papers predominantly from the UK, but also from Australia, Italy, Sweden and USA formed the data set. Overarching themes that emerged from the thematic analysis included: noticing dissonance, emitting curiosity, constructing meaning, facilitators, individual professional challenges, organisational and macro-level influences and conceptual development. This review demonstrated that professional curiosity is multifaceted and involves a whole system approach, from empowered, knowledgeable and competent frontline practitioners to creative, innovative and empathic organisations, that value staff contributions and place the child's best interests at the forefront of service development. Recommendations are made for practice and further research.

Critical illness and the intensive care unit can be a terrifying experience to patients and relatives and they may experience the extreme life-saving measures as dehumanizing. Humanizing intensive care is often described as holism or dignity, but these abstract concepts provide little bodily resonance to what a humanized attitude is in concrete situations. To explore what contributes to patients' and relatives' experience of intensive care as humanized or dehumanized. Thematic synthesis. Findings from 15 qualitative papers describing patients' and/or relatives' perceptions of humanizing or dehumanizing care. A systematic literature search of PubMed, CINAHL, Scopus and EMBASE from 1 January 1999 to 20 August 2022 identified 16 qualitative, empirical papers describing patients' and relatives' experiences of humanizing or dehumanizing intensive care, which were assessed using Critical Appraisal Skills Programme Qualitative Checklist, 15 papers were included and analysed using Thematic Synthesis and Ricoeur's model of the text. Intensive care was humanized when patients felt connected with healthcare professionals, with themselves by experiencing safety and well-being and with their loved ones. Intensive care was humanized to relatives when the patient was cared for as a unique person, when they were allowed to stay connected to the patient and when they felt cared for in the critical situation. Patients and relatives experienced intensive care as humanized when healthcare professionals expressed genuine attention and supported them through their caring actions and when healthcare professionals supported patients' and relatives' opportunities to stay connected in the disrupted situation of critical illness. When healthcare professionals offered a connection to the patients and relatives, this helped them hold on and find meaning. No patient and public contribution.

School bullying is a public health concern affecting the physical and mental health of children and young people. While school-based interventions to prevent bullying have been developed internationally, the effectiveness of many interventions has been mixed and modest. Despite a growing recognition that the school built environment may impact bullying behaviour, few anti-bullying interventions have addressed the built environment. This systematic scoping review explored existing literature for evidence that the school built environment influences bullying behaviour in school students. The review was guided by Arksey and O'Malley's methodological framework for scoping reviews. A search of six databases (Medline, PsycINFO, ERIC, EMBASE, CINAHL Plus and The Cochrane Library) identified studies addressing primary, middle and secondary school students, bullying, school bullying locations, and school built environments. Peer-reviewed journal articles published in English prior to July 19, 2021, were included. In total, 7568 documents were screened by title and abstract. Following a full-text review, 61 studies (63 articles) were selected; 43 studies identified school bullying locations, and 19 studies linked features of the school built environment to bullying behaviour. Classrooms, playgrounds, and corridors were identified as common bullying locations. Features of the school built environment linked to bullying behaviour included security cameras, architectural design, aesthetics, seating, and vandalism. This review identified key school settings for anti-bullying interventions and identified gaps in existing built environment and bullying literature. Further analyses of published studies will inform anti-bullying policy and practice.

A systematic review of the literature to explore nursing students' lived experience of a clinical placement in a healthcare setting in a prison, to identify how and if their needs were met to enable an optimal learning environment BACKGROUND: There is an increasing demand for clinical placements to support undergraduate/prelicense nurse education, especially within primary and community healthcare settings. A clinical placement in a prison has the potential to provide multiple learning opportunities for nursing students due to the unique requirements of prisoners. However, there remains a need to understand nursing students' experiences of a clinical placement in a prison. The updated PRISMA guidelines for reporting systematic reviews guided the development of this study. Inclusion and exclusion criteria informed the search strategy of recognised MeSH terms and Boolean operators, which were applied to search CINAHL complete, APA Psycinfo, MEDLINE, Google Scholar and Grey Open. Manual searching of the reference lists of all identified studies was completed. Standardised critical appraisal instruments were applied to each included study. Data extraction and analysis was completed by adhering to the thematic analysis process described by Thomas and Harden. The electronic database and reference list search identified 81 studies published between January 2000 and December 2021 in the English language, which was reduced to the inclusion of five studies. Following screening, studies were completed in USA (n = 2), Australia (n = 1), Canada (n = 1) and UK (n = 1). A total of 228 nursing students had completed a clinical placement in prison. Four themes were identified: 1) pre-placement anxiety; 2) a sense of safety; 3) impact on negative stereotypes; and 4) an opportunity for learning CONCLUSION: The voluntary and opt-in nature of clinical placements in prison may have created some bias in the results. However, standardised preparation and orientation of nursing students prior to commencing a clinical placement in prison is essential. Nursing students require structured support to understand their anxieties, the rules and regulations of security and how to interact with prisoners prior to entering a prison. Clinical placements within prison provide nursing students with an opportunity to challenge negative attitudes towards diverse and marginalised populations, develop clinical practice, knowledge and become socialised into the profession. However, the experience, knowledge and willingness of Registered Nurses to support nursing students is essential, to enable and empower their learning within this non-traditional clinical placement. Tweetable abstract On completion of a placement in prison healthcare nursing students identified pre-placement anxiety, a sense of safety, impact on negative stereotypes and an opportunity for learning, however, the need for preparation, orientation and realistic understanding of safety remains.

Reports an error in "Making hidden resources visible in a minority serving college context" by Gerardo Ramirez, Rebecca Covarrubias, Matthew Jackson and Ji Y. Son ( Across 2 large-scale experiments at a minority serving institution, participants watched either resource videos only or resource videos coupled with students' stories. Compared to a no-treatment control group, we found that first-generation-to-college students benefited from receiving both types of resource information. Continuing-generation-to-college students benefited the most when resources were coupled with student stories. We speculate that first-generation students at minority serving institutions have concrete concerns that need to be addressed alongside identity and social belonging needs. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

There has been little research on domestic violence (DV) within ethnic minority communities in high-income countries. This study reports on the findings of a meta-ethnography that examined the barriers and facilitators of help-seeking behaviors in South Asian women living in high-income countries who have experienced DV to inform practice, understand the limits of the evidence, and identify research gaps. Qualitative studies were identified which were available in English by electronic databases. After an initial search, 2,465 articles were reviewed by title and abstract and 135 articles were reviewed for full text. Thirty-five papers were included for this review and were synthesized using meta-ethnography. Key findings included barriers and facilitators of help-seeking behaviors: (1) Socio-cultural norms to prohibit help-seeking behaviors, (2) Fear of negative consequences, (3) Negative aspects of immigration status, (4) Insufficient support from statutory, and voluntary agencies, (5) Safety strategies and facilitators for surviving. Although this review investigated the perceptions of two different populations (survivors and service providers) both groups had similar views about the barriers and facilitators of help-seeking behaviors. It is crucial for the government and non-government organizations to understand the barriers for women who are DV survivors to seek help from their organizations and also from South Asian ethnicities. The awareness and understanding of these barriers and facilitators may help support the development of interventions to encourage effective help-seeking amongst South Asian women affected by DV. Suggestions for research, practice, and policies are discussed.

(1) Background: Albeit the main focus remains largely on mothers, in recent years Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (DOHaD) scientists, including epigeneticists, have started to examine how a father's environment affects disease risk in children and argued that more attention needs to be given to father's health-related behaviors for their influence on offspring at preconception (i.e., sperm health) as well as paternal lifestyle influences over the first 1000 days. This research ushers in a new paternal origins of health and disease (POHaD) paradigm and is considered a welcome equalization to the overemphasis on maternal influences. Epigeneticists are excited by the possibilities of the POHaD paradigm but are also cautious about how to interpret data and avoid biased impression of socio-biological reality. (2) Methods: We review sociological and historical literatures on the intersection of gender, food and diet across different social and historical contexts to enrich our understanding of the father; (3) Results: Sociological and historical research on family food practices and diet show that there are no "fathers" in the abstract or vacuum, but they are differently classed, racialized and exist in socially stratified situations where choices may be constrained or unavailable. This confirms that epigeneticists researching POHaD need to be cautious in interpreting paternal and maternal dietary influences on offspring health; (4) Conclusions: We suggest that interdisciplinary approach to this new paradigm, which draws on sociology, history and public health, can help provide the social and historical context for interpreting and critically understanding paternal lifestyles and influences on offspring health.

The majority of patients with a substance use disorder (SUD) in the United States do not receive evidence-based treatment. Research has also demonstrated challenges to accessing SUD care in the US criminal justice system. We conducted a systematic review of access to SUD care in the US criminal justice system. We searched for comprehensive qualitative studies in multiple databases through April 2021, and two researchers reviewed 6858 studies using pre-selected inclusion criteria. Once eligibility was determined, themes were extracted from the data. This review provides a thematic overview of the US qualitative studies to inform future research-based interventions. This review was conducted in compliance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA). There were 6858 unique abstract results identified for review, and seven qualitative studies met the inclusion criteria. Two themes were identified from these results: (1) managing withdrawal from medication-assisted treatment, and (2) facilitators and barriers to treatment programs in the criminal justice system. Qualitative research evaluating access to SUD care in the US criminal justice system varied, with some interventions reported not rooted in evidence-based medicine. An opportunity may exist to develop best practices to ensure evidence-based treatment for SUDs is delivered to patients who need it in the US criminal justice system.

In this article I examine the unintended consequences of global mental health reform in postwar South Lebanon. I follow the integration of mental health in primary health care centers. Three key tensions emerge: First, integrating mental health led to separating mental health from socioeconomic conditions. Second, culture was simultaneously conceived as a barrier to therapy and a local context requiring adaptation. Third, the use of personality disorders as psychological interpretations of social life resulted in psychologizing gender and class. The article contributes to growing ethnographic research on global mental health and calls for attention to structural competence in similar settings.

Bullying victimization has consistently been highlighted as a risk factor for self-injurious thoughts and behaviors (SITBs) in young people. This systematic review of prospective, community-based studies explored associations between bullying victimization (traditional/face-to-face and cyber) across the full spectrum of self-harm and suicidality, in children and young people aged up to (and including) 25 years. Importantly, associations by sex/gender were explored. MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL and Scopus were searched for articles meeting the inclusion criteria. Articles were screened by title, abstract and full text. Quality appraisal was performed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for cohort studies. Data were synthesized narratively. The protocol is registered on PROSPERO (CRD42021261916) and followed PRISMA 2020 guidelines. A total of 35 papers were included, across 17 countries. Results were presented by bullying type: traditional/face-to-face (n = 25), cyber (n = 7) and/or an aggregate of both types (n = 7). Outcomes included suicidal ideation (n = 17), self-harm (n = 10), suicide attempt (n = 4), NSSI (n = 4), other (n = 7). Studies measured outcomes in under 18s (n = 24), 18-25-year-olds (n = 8) and both under 18s and 18-25-year-olds (n = 3). Studies exploring the role of sex/gender (20%) found some interesting nuances. Some weak to strong associations between bullying and SITBs were found yet conclusions are tentative due to study heterogeneity (e.g., methods used, conceptualizations and operationalisations of exposures/outcomes). Future research should address methodological issues raised in this review, and further explore gender differences in bullying, including by bullying sub-types (e.g., overt or relational) and victim status (e.g., victim or bully-victim).

Young people constitute a critical mass in Africa south of the Sahara (SSA) yet lack adequate information on sexuality education essential for their health and development. Guided by two sociological perspectives on socialization, that is, structural functionalism and conflict perspective, our study had 2 aims: 1) to identify and analyze studies investigating parent-adolescent sexuality communication (ie, triggers/contents) and 2) to identify and discuss barriers to sexuality-related communication between parents and adolescents. The scoping review was conducted according to the Arksey and O'Malley framework and used PRISMA reporting guidelines for scoping reviews. We searched three databases (Scopus, PubMed, and Google Scholar) for relevant articles published in English in the last decade -2011 to 2021 and analyzed the data using a qualitative content analysis approach. A total of 1045 studies were identified. After abstract review, we identified 58 papers, and after full-text review, 16 studies were included in the final review. Aim 1a) Discussions of sexuality-related conversations were triggered by parents/caretakers due to pubertal/physical changes and adolescents' "inapt" behaviors (eg, engaging in sex). Aim 1b) Our results showed that contents of sexuality education de-emphasized/avoided sensitive sexuality-related topics (such as condom use/contraception) that did not fit within the sociocultural norms/expectations, characterized by threats, cautions, and wrought with moralistic and religious views that evaded practical information regarding sex, contraception, and other critical sexual information. Aim 2: Two themes emerged as barriers that impede sexuality-related discussions, including whose responsibility it is to discuss sexuality-issues with adolescents and the gender differences/discordance of parent-adolescent dyads. Sexuality education for adolescents in SSA is not comprehensive due to structured power relations. Thus, parent-adolescent sexuality communication falls short of the value of sexuality education for young people for whom accurate and complete sexual health information is critical for making informed decisions as they emerge into adulthood. Agbeve AS, Fiaveh DY, Anto-Ocrah M. Parent-Adolescent Sexuality Communication in the African Context: A Scoping Review of the Literature. Sex Med Rev 2022;10:554-566.

Social prescribing is a person-centred model of care with emphases on lessening the impact of unmet social needs, supporting the delivery of personalised care, and reducing non-medical resource use in the primary care setting. The purpose of this systematic review was to synthesise the effect of social prescribing for older adults within primary care. We followed standard systematic review guidelines, including protocol registration, screening studies (title/abstract and full text) and assessing the study quality. We searched multiple online databases for studies that included older adults 60+ years (group mean age), an intervention defined and called social prescribing (or social prescription) via health provider referrals to non-medical services, and quantitative physical and psychosocial outcomes and/or health resource use. We included experimental and observational studies from all years and languages and conducted a narrative synthesis. The date of the last search was 24 March 2022. We screened 406 citations (after removing duplicates) and included seven studies. All studies except one were before-after design without a control group, and all except one study was conducted in the UK. Studies included 12-159 participants (baseline), there were more women than men, the group mean (SD) age was 76.1 (4.0) years and data collection (baseline to final) occurred on average 19.4 (14.0) weeks apart. Social prescribing referrals came from health and social providers. Studies had considerable risk of bias, programme implementation details were missing, and for studies that reported data (n=6) on average only 66% of participants completed studies (per-protocol). There were some positive effects of social prescribing on physical and psychosocial outcomes (eg, social participation, well-being). Findings varied for health resource use. These results may change with new evidence. There were few peer-reviewed studies available for social prescribing and older adults. Next steps for social prescribing should include co-creating initiatives with providers, older people and communities to identify meaningful outcomes, and feasible and robust methods for uptake of the prescription and community programmes. This should be considered in advance or in parallel with determining its effectiveness for meaningful outcomes at multiple levels (person, provider and programme).

Unexpected premature delivery and separation from preterm infants are common problems that parents of preterm infants must handle with. Parents of preterm infants may suffer from severe psychological distress. Family-centred care (FCC) can effectively ease parents' psychological distress and strengthen connections between parents and their preterm infants. The purpose of this systematic review will be to systematically review and evaluate the impacts of FCC interventions on the mental health of parents of preterm infants and the parent-infant relationship. This protocol for this systematic review will be conducted in line with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocol. We will search databases including PubMed, Embase, The Cochrane Library, CINAHL, Web of Science, PsycINFO, Scopus and ProQuest, CNKI, SinoMed and Wanfang Data from 1 July 2012 to 1 July 2022. An additional search of OpenGrey will be conducted to identify grey literature. Randomised controlled trials related to FCC inventions for preterm infants≤37 weeks' gestational age and their parents will be included, and the outcome measures will be parental mental health and parent-infant interaction. Two reviewers will independently conduct title and abstract screening, full-text screening, data extraction and study quality assessment. Risk of bias for the studies will be evaluated using the Cochrane Collaboration Risk of Bias V.2.0. Any disagreements will be solved by a third reviewer to reach a consensus. If appropriate, a meta-analysis will be conducted to assess the effect of FCC on parental mental health and parent-infant relationship. Research ethics approval will not be required for this review since it will not involve the collection of primary data and will only use published literature. The results will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal through publication or by presentation at relevant academic conference. CRD42022299203.

A new version of Phish-Pharm: a Searchable Database of Pharmacokinetics and Drug Residue Literature in Fish has been updated and posted online at: http://www.fda.gov/AnimalVeterinary/ScienceResearch/ToolsResources/Phish-Pharm/default.htm . The new version contains over 700 articles encompassing 191 aquatic species (fish, shellfish, and more).Phish-Pharm, first released in 2005, accompanied an article in this Journal, titled "Fish Drug Analysis-Phish-Pharm: A Searchable Database of Pharmacokinetics Data in Fish," by R. Reimschuessel, L. Stewart, E. Squibb, K. Hirokawa, T. Brady, D. Brooks, B. Shaikh, C. Hodsdon, AAPS Journal. 2005;07(02):E288-E327, article 30. ( https://link.springer.com/article/10.1208/aapsj070230 )FDA understands that there are limited approved, conditionally approved, or indexed drugs available for use in aquatic animals. In response, FDA made this reference database publicly available to assist investigators in developing new animal drugs for aquatic species. The database also supports FDA Center for Veterinary Medicine's mission of protecting human and animal health by serving as a resource for the aquatic drug approval process and drug residue surveillance.Phish-Pharm is a Microsoft Access database that is periodically updated. Searchable fields include pharmacokinetic data and links to the abstract for each article. Phish-Pharm enables users to evaluate information on drugs and chemicals and to identify research gaps to guide future research. Phish-Pharm is not intended for aquaculture farmers to evaluate safety or effectiveness of unapproved drugs. Phish-Pharm is not an appropriate tool for recommending withdrawal intervals of drug and chemical residues due to variability among studies. Aquaculture farmers should only use approved, conditionally approved, or indexed drugs in their operations (see Approved Aquaculture Drugs ).

This review aims to map the existing evidence on perinatal suicidal ideation, identify biopsychosocial risk factors associated with suicidal ideation and make recommendations for service provision and future research. Scoping review guided by Arskey's and O'Malley's (2005) framework. Five academic databases (PsycINFO, MEDLINE, CINAHL, ASSIA and Academic Search Complete) were searched from 1st January 2009 to 1st April 2022. Studies were screened by title, abstract and full text against inclusion and exclusion criteria. Primary qualitative, quantitative and mixed-methods studies, written in English pertaining to perinatal suicidal ideation were included. Forty-one studies met the eligibility criteria, data were extracted and narratively synthesised. Findings are reported in accordance with the PRISMA-SR extension. Findings were mapped onto the biopsychosocial framework and include sleep deprivation, maternal age, pregnancy complications, mood disorders, intimate partner violence, childhood maltreatment/abuse, low socioeconomic status, alcohol and tobacco misuse, miscarriage/perinatal loss, birth trauma and sleep deprivation. The findings demonstrate that the biopsychosocial risk factors for perinatal suicidal ideation are varied and complex. The minimisation of women's experiences may lead to detrimental consequences and there is a need for increased knowledge of mental health problems by those working with women in the perinatal period to ensure safety planning conversations occur with every woman meeting 'at risk' criteria.

Map the landscape of friendship interventions/programs for older adults to guide intervention/program development inclusive of the unique needs of older people with aphasia (PWA). A search query of multiple databases was completed for articles published before 4 January 2021. Studies included all the following: (1) participants aged 55 years or older; (2) addressed an intervention/program designed to prevent social isolation and/or friendship loss; (3) used an outcome variable related to social isolation and/or friendship; and (4) published in a peer-reviewed journal. Title and abstract screening were conducted using Covidence software, which tracked disagreements across the study team. All studies included in the full-text review were identified as relevant by a minimum of two study authors, and a consensus was reached on all full-text reviews. Data were extracted according to (1) theoretical frameworks used; (2) interventionist and discipline; (3) participant characteristics; (4) intervention/program replicability; (5) format of intervention/program; (6) measures used in the intervention/programs; (7) and, reported effects of intervention/programs on individuals. A total of 40 articles with 42 intervention/programs were included and represented 4584 intervention/program participants ranging in age from 40 to 104 years. Intervention/programs involved a wide range of theoretical frameworks (e.g., theories of loneliness, feminist theory, positive psychology). Disciplines such as psychology and exercise science informed intervention/programs. Interventionists included many types of individuals like therapists, volunteers and home health aides. Intervention/programs often lacked adequate description for replication and included individual and group formats, most commonly delievered in the participants homes. Outcomes usually included self-report measures of loneliness, social networks, or well-being, and intervention/programming was primarily educational, activity-based, or networking-based in nature. The intervention/programs reviewed yield important lessons to support innovation in developing friendship intervention/programs for older PWA as most yielded positive results and were acceptable to participants.IMPLICATIONS FOR REHABILITATIONPeople with aphasia want their friendships addressed as part of their rehabilitation; however, the research literature has little guidance in this area.Studies reviewed of friendship intervention/programs for older adults yielded helpful lessons for consideration in developing this type of intervention/programming for people with aphasia.Interprofessional teams made up of rehabilitation professionals should address friendship for people with aphasia in both research and clinical practice.

Women represent about 6% of the global prison population of 11 million. The female prison population has increased significantly in the past decade. Where attention is devoted to women's unique sexual and reproductive health needs in prison, this is largely focused on menstruation management and ante/postnatal care. There is no explicit guidance regarding imprisoned menopausal women's health care in the United Nations normative standards of detention (Mandela Rules, Bangkok Rules). A human rights assessment of menopausal women's access to age- and gender-sensitive nondiscriminatory health care in prison since 2010 was conducted. Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review methodology was adhered to. A systematic search was conducted using detailed MeSH terms on CINAHL, MEDLINE, PubMed, ProQuest Central, PsycInfo, Scopus, and the Web of Science. All published materials in the English language in the time frame of 2010-2022 were collated (n = 268). Fourteen duplicates were removed. Two hundred thirty-four were excluded after title and abstract screening, with five records remaining. Hand searching yielded an additional 11 records. Sixteen records were charted and analyzed thematically using a human rights lens. Themes were the following: environmental conditions and menopausal sequelae, gender-sensitive nondiscriminatory free health care, evidence-based age/gender-sensitive prison health policies, and medical insensitivity and incompetencies in menopausal care. Menopausal women have the right to the underlying environmental determinants of health in prison and rights to nondiscrimination and equivalence of care, essential medicines, medical care and treatment, preventive health services, and participation in the generation of prison policies and support initiatives. The lack of visibility regarding their health needs in policies and healthcare provisions is reflected in the realities of life in prison, with glaring gaps in the practical medical and lifestyle supports of menopause. Further research is warranted to inform evidence-based prison reforms to improve the quality of life of older women in prison.

Shared Decision-Making in Pediatrics - a Collaborative Process within the Therapeutic Triangle between Parents, the Child and Professionals 

Outcomes of omicron-associated COVID-19 in pregnancy have not been reported from low-resource settings, and data from sub-Saharan Africa before the emergence of omicron are scarce. Using a national maternal surveillance platform (MATSurvey), we aimed to compare maternal and neonatal outcomes of COVID-19 in Malawi during the omicron wave to the preceding waves of beta and delta. All pregnant and recently pregnant patients, up to 42 days following delivery, admitted to 33 health-care facilities throughout Malawi with symptomatic, test-proven COVID-19 during the second (beta [B.1.351]: January to April, 2021), third (delta [B.1.617.2]: June to October, 2021), and fourth (omicron [B.1.1.529]: December 2021 to March, 2022) waves were included, with no age restrictions. Demographic and clinical features, maternal outcomes of interest (severe maternal outcome [a composite of maternal near-miss events and maternal deaths] and maternal death), and neonatal outcomes of interest (stillbirth and death during maternal stay in the health-care facility of enrolment) were compared between the fourth wave and the second and third waves using Fisher's exact test. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) for maternal outcomes were estimated using mixed-effects logistic regression. Between Jan 1, 2021, and March 31, 2022, 437 patients admitted to 28 health-care facilities conducting MATSurvey had symptoms of COVID-19. SARS-CoV-2 infection was confirmed in 261 patients; of whom 76 (29%) had a severe maternal outcome and 45 (17%) died. These two outcomes were less common during the fourth wave (omicron dominance) than the second wave (adjusted OR of severe maternal outcome: 3·96 [95% CI 1·22-12·83], p=0·022; adjusted OR of maternal death: 5·65 [1·54-20·69], p=0·0090) and the third wave (adjusted OR: 3·18 [1·03-9·80], p=0·044; adjusted OR: 3·52 [0·98-12·60], p=0·053). Shortness of breath was the only symptom associated with poor maternal outcomes of interest (p<0·0001), and was less frequently reported in the fourth wave (23%) than in the second wave (51%; p=0·0007) or third wave (50%; p=0·0004). The demographic characteristics and medical histories of patients were similar across the three waves. During the second and third waves, 12 (13%) of 92 singleton neonates were stillborn or died during maternal stay in the health-care facility of enrolment, compared with 0 of the 25 born in the fourth wave (p=0·067 vs preceding waves combined). Maternal and neonatal outcomes from COVID-19 were less severe during the fourth wave of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in Malawi, during omicron dominance, than during the preceding beta and delta waves. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome Trust, and the National Institute for Health and Care Research. For the Chichewa translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

In recent years, violent extremism (VE) attacks have escalated worldwide. More schools and students are being attacked. Examining and addressing VE core causes through preventing VE (PVE) strategies can help avoid future atrocities. Due to the tremendous proliferation of research geared toward PVE, an extensive but disorganized knowledge review has accumulated in recent years. The review aims to discover several common themes and strategies across different disciplines and suggests resilience approaches might be the effective framework for PVE worldwide. This study followed the guidelines provided by PRISMA. A systematic literature review on 81 articles was conducted in January 2022, with a screening approach starting from the title, abstract and finally, full articles. Seventeen studies were identified with a total sample of 2415 vulnerable young adults, age range: 16-29, male: 68.65% and female 31.35% mainly influenced VE pursuits through internet, TV and social media. In addition, the study identified that for PVE, individual actions would include ineffective approaches compared to a group approach starting from family to educational institutions. The effective PVE will be ensured by developing strategies for resilient individuals and dialoguing from the social-ecological perspective for taking practical actions in reducing VE activities.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental health clients experience higher estimated rates of domestic violence, yet mental health services are less likely to screen for domestic violence. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper qualitatively explores the perspectives and experiences of mental health practitioners in inpatient and community teams in a publicly funded hospital and health service (i.e. public mental health service). Mental health practitioners described a lack of domestic violence training, as well as a lack of knowledge of domestic violence and support mechanisms for victims, when domestic violence is disclosed by clients. The paper highlights the unique difficulties and barriers experienced by clinicians in screening for domestic violence while also dealing with clients suffering a mental health crisis. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The paper sheds more light on the issue of domestic violence in mental health in terms of screening, and identifies avenues for improvement in mental health services; particularly the need for staff training and education. ABSTRACT: Introduction Domestic violence is particularly prevalent within mental health client groups, though screening for domestic violence within mental health services is often overlooked. Aim To investigate the experiences and opinions of domestic violence screening by mental health clinicians in a publicly funded hospital and health service. Methods Semi-structured interviews were conducted with twelve clinicians working in publicly funded mental health services in Queensland, Australia. Transcripts were thematically analysed. Results Four main themes emerged from the data: staff training and experience; prioritizing domestic violence screening; attitudes to domestic violence; and victim support. Participants discussed a lack of training for, or expectations of, domestic violence screening in mental health services. They also highlighted a lack of resources enabling them to appropriately respond when domestic violence was identified. Discussion Education, attitudes and resources relating to domestic violence are major factors that should be addressed for the successful screening and treatment of clients in mental health. Implications for Practice This paper informs services of the gaps in knowledge and care around domestic violence and mental health. A less medicalized approach to the treatment of mental health should be adopted, and domestic violence training introduced for all healthcare practitioners, to improve client outcomes.

To describe and map scientific literature related to alcohol consumption, its determinants, governance, harm and control policies by publication output, author affiliations, funding, countries of study and research themes. Bibliometric analysis using performance analysis and science mapping techniques. Scientific articles. Indexed scientific articles published between 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2021 with an English abstract focused on alcohol consumption, its determinants, harms, governance and control policies. Searches were run in Web of Science and PubMed. Performance metrics were analysed using descriptive statistics. Keywords were used for science mapping in a deductive approach to cluster articles by five main research themes. The 'policy response' theme was further analysed by six subthemes. 4553 articles were included in the analysis. Three out of four articles (3479/4553, 76.4%) were authored solely by authors affiliated with HIC institutions. One in five articles (906/4553, 19.9%) had at least one author affiliated to an institution from an upper-middle-income, middle-income or low-income country context. Governments, followed by research institutions, were the predominant funding source. Half (53.1%) studied a single country and, of these, 77.0% were high-income countries (HICs). Australia, USA and UK were the most studied countries, together accounting for 44.9% (975/2172) of country-specific articles. Thematically, 'consumption' was most studied, and 'alcohol determinants', least. 'Policy response' articles were predominately conducted in HIC contexts. Although the attributable harm of alcohol is known to affect more significantly lower-income and middle-income countries, scientific publications primarily report on HIC contexts by authors from HICs. Research themes reflect known cost-effective policy actions, though skewed towards HICs and a focus on consumption. The implementation of context-specific alcohol control policies requires addressing the determinants of the uneven geographical and thematic distribution of research.

Family plays an essential role in drug-related behavior. Based on a case study of the Lin family, whose members have all taken drugs for almost 20 years but have now completed community rehabilitation, in this study, we attempted to reveal the specific operating mechanisms of the family during the process of rehabilitation. In the analysis process, we divided the drug-use history of this family into three stages from a diachronic dimension: promote-disorder-control; we used family politics as the theoretical framework. During the drug-use promotion stage (1990-1999), all members began to use drugs. During the disorder stage (2000-2017), the Lin family members consistently relapsed intermittently due to the brutal effects of social forces and the lack of family order. Finally, in the control stage (2018-2021), the Lin family established a new family order and completed rehabilitation. The establishment process produced changes in the family politics structure, including a shift in the center of power and the decision-making patterns. Additionally, we found that the interweaving of love and power was another key trait of family politics, embodied in behavior regulation, resource sharing, and maintaining dignity among members, which further consolidated the establishment of the new family order. The results of our analysis of endogenous family change both enrich the abstract concept of family support in addiction recovery and present the potential a family has in recovery.

The human gut is home to a largely underexplored microbiome component, the archaeome. Little is known of the impact of geography, urbanization, ethnicity, and diet on the gut archaeome in association with host health. We aim to delineate the variation of the human gut archaeome in healthy individuals and its association with environmental factors and host homeostasis. Using metagenomic sequencing, we characterized the fecal archaeomes of 792 healthy adult subjects from 5 regions in China, spanning 6 ethnicities (Han, Zang, Miao, Bai, Dai, and Hani), consisting of both urban and rural residents for each ethnicity. In addition, we sampled 119 host variables (including lifestyle, diet, and blood parameters) and interrogated the influences of those factors, individually and combined, on gut archaeome variations. Population geography had the strongest impact on the gut archaeome composition, followed by urbanization, dietary habit, and ethnicity. Overall, the metadata had a cumulative effect size of 11.0% on gut archaeome variation. Urbanization decreased both the α-diversity (intrinsic microbial diversity) and the β-diversity (inter-individual dissimilarities) of the gut archaeome, and the archaea-to-bacteria ratios in feces, whereas rural residents were enriched for Methanobrevibacter smithii in feces. Consumption of buttered milk tea (a characteristic diet of the rural Zang population) was associated with increased abundance of M. smithii. M. smithii was at the central hub of archaeal-bacterial interactions in the gut microecology, where it was positively correlated with the abundances of a multitude of short chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing bacteria (including Roseburia faecis, Collinsella aerofaciens, and Prevotella copri). Moreover, a decreased abundance of M. smithii was associated with increased human blood levels of cholinesterase in the urban population, coinciding with the increasing prevalence of noncommunicable diseases (such as dementia) during urbanization. Our data highlight marked contributions of environmental and host factors (geography, urbanization, ethnicity, and habitual diets) to gut archaeome variations across healthy individuals, and underscore the impact of urbanization on the gut archaeome in association with host health in modern society. Video Abstract.

What is known on the subject? Lived experience narratives of recovery can provide an insight and subtlety where academic papers can often fall short. There is a need for people who work in mental health services to address and take care of their own psychosocial needs. What the paper adds to existing knowledge? This paper provides a unique insight into a care professional's recovery from mental ill health. Looked at through this dual lens of service user and care professional provide the reader with a rich narrative from the perspective of both sides of the caring role. What are the implications for practice? People who work in caring roles need to be vigilant of their own needs and the impact that the work can have on them. Safety protocol for managing one's own mental health should be a requirement for people within the caring profession. Introduction This is an account of my experiences becoming unwell and accessing general and mental health services in Ireland. Aim It is hoped that this lived narrative of my recovery will shed light on accessing mental health services from a dual lens; that of service user and social worker. Method It traces this experience from initial contact with my general practitioner, to admission to a secure psychiatric ward where recovery slowly began. Results It is also hoped that reading my experiences of recovery and some of the insights shared will help those in the nursing or social care profession consider how they may be affected by their work. Discussion It is important to note that this account views my experiences within a neurobiology framework and this might not align to other people's experiences. However, my narrative of help-seeking is complex and includes multiple points where I uncover insights and encounter different healthcare professionals.

Maternal infections during pregnancy are associated with intellectual disability and autism in exposed children. Whether these associations are causal, and therefore should be targets of preventive strategies, remains unknown. We aimed to investigate these associations, to determine whether there is a causal role of maternal infection during pregnancy for children's risk of autism and intellectual disability, by accounting for unmeasured familial factors. We used a register-based cohort study design, and included children living in Stockholm County, Sweden, who were born in 1987-2010. We excluded children not born in Sweden, adopted children, and children with unknown biological mothers or fathers. Maternal infections during pregnancy, defined by ICD-8, ICD-9, and ICD-10 codes, were identified in the National Patient Register and Medical Birth Register. Children were followed up from birth to an outcome or a censoring event (death, migration from Stockholm, age 18 years, or Dec 31, 2016, whichever occurred first). The primary outcomes were diagnosis of autism or diagnosis of intellectual disability. We did a survival analysis to examine the association between inpatient and outpatient specialised care for any infection during pregnancy and likelihood of autism or intellectual disability in the child. To address potential residual confounding, we also estimated the relationship between maternal infection in the year preceding pregnancy as a negative control exposure and conducted a matched sibling analysis of sibling pairs who were discordant for autism or intellectual disability. 647 947 children living in Stockholm County were identified and, after excluding 97 980 children, we included 549 967 in the study (267 995 [48·7%] were female and 281 972 [51·3%] were male; mean age at censoring 13·5 years [SD 5·0; range <1 to 18]; 142 597 [25·9%] had a mother who was not born in Sweden). 445 (1·3%) of 34 013 children exposed to maternal infection during pregnancy were diagnosed with intellectual disability and 1123 (3·3%) with autism. 5087 (1·0%) of 515 954 unexposed children were diagnosed with intellectual disability and 13 035 (2·5%) with autism. Maternal infection during pregnancy was associated with autism (hazard ratio [HR] 1·16, 95% CI 1·09-1·23) and intellectual disability (1·37, 1·23-1·51) in exposed children compared with unexposed children. Maternal infection in the year before pregnancy (negative control exposure) was also associated with autism (HR 1·25, 95% CI 1·14-1·36), but was not associated with intellectual disability (1·09, 0·94-1·27). In sibling comparisons, the associations with maternal infection during pregnancy were attenuated for autism (HR 0·94, 95% CI 0·82-1·08; n=21 864), but not to the same extent for intellectual disability (1·15, 0·95-1·40; n=9275). Although infections in pregnant women are associated with both autism and intellectual disability in their children, the association with autism does not appear to reflect a causal relationship, but is more likely to be explained by factors shared between family members such as genetic variation or aspects of the shared environment. Thus, infection prevention is not expected to reduce autism incidence. For intellectual disability, unmeasured familial factors might not fully explain the observed associations, and a causal role of maternal infections cannot be excluded. Causal effects of specific but rare infections or infections not requiring health care contact cannot be excluded in either autism or intellectual disability. Swedish Research Council, Stanley Medical Research Institute, and Autism Speaks. For the Swedish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

This review aims to map the available evidence on biopsychosocial predictors of elderly mental health. The articles were independently screened in three selected databases, namely Pubmed, Proquest and Google Scholar. The stages consist of identifying the research questions, seeking and selecting relevant evidence, mapping data, and concluding and reporting results. The PRISMA flowchart was used to show the PEOS evidence search flow. A total of 23,722 articles were obtained from all databases during the initial search, where 458 titles fulfilled the eligibility criteria at the title screening stage. Furthermore, 383 articles passed through abstract screening, where 75 met the inclusion criteria and were included for full-text screening. Based on the full-text screening stage, 28 articles were excluded and the remaining 47 articles that matched the search process were included for data extraction. This review creates biopsychosocial variables related to the mental health of the elderly. The biological factors consist of age, biomarkers, female, health conditions, chronic diseases, and physical function. Variables related to psychological factors are affect, personality traits, and subjective well-being. Meanwhile, social factors include smoking, sleep quality, physical activity, daily living, social support, marital status, loneliness, religiosity, spirituality, and early life conditions.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Service users who behave violently may suffer. This is because violence can lead to unnecessary medication, seclusion on the ward and strained relationships with other people. It can also affect a service user's self-esteem and lead to feelings of shame. Service users who behave violently can also make life frightening and unpredictable for members of staff, and other service users on the ward. It is important to gain a sound understanding of violence in order to help reduce it. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Previous research has shown that having a past history of violence, being admitted to PICU and being admitted to hospital under section is associated with violent behaviour on the ward. We identified several new factors associated with violent behaviour, such as engaging in self-harm, being the target of another person's violence and being referred to a Psychiatric Liaison Team. For some service users, behaving violently may be a response to previous trauma and an expression of distress. It is therefore important that mental health nurses are supported by their employers to work with service users in a trauma-informed manner. Nurses employed across a range of psychiatric settings could benefit from direct interventions such as comprehensive trauma-informed care training and psychological debrief spaces, or systemic interventions to address staff shortages and improve ward conditions. INTRODUCTION: Instances of violence in acute psychiatric settings are frequent, can be devastating for service users and staff, and are costly. Such settings would benefit from a greater understanding of violence. We analysed the association between current and historical variables and rates of inpatient violence. To address gaps in current research, we included instances of self-harm and being the target of violence. We also included seldom used service metrics. Data were extracted on admissions to acute adult wards and PICUs 2017-2020 within South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust. A zero-inflated negative binomial regression mixed model was used to analyse the impact of variables on rates of violence. Variables associated with an increased rate of violence were as follows: an increased number of violent incidents in the year before admission, being admitted on MHA section, being admitted to PICU, instances of self-harm, being the target of violence and referral to a Psychiatric Liaison Team. The novel associations found between enacting violence, self-harm and being the target of violence indicate trauma-informed care is crucial to reduce violent presentations of distress. System level interventions are crucial to ensure mental health nurses are supported to provide trauma-informed care.

The construction and operation of China's rail transit system have entered a high-speed development stage, and the rapid increase of train speed and mileage has brought greater challenges to the safety and reliability of the rail transit system. Network planning evaluation is the key to the early decision-making of urban rail transit project, which directly determines the success or failure of the whole project. How to scientifically and reasonably evaluate the urban rail transit information resource network planning has become a difficult problem for many urban planners to solve. Therefore, this paper studies the optimization of the communication resource allocation algorithm and the comprehensive evaluation of its application for urban rail transit planning. In this paper, based on CVNN structure, the network prototype is an extension of RVNN structure. In the abstract, its processing unit is composed of a pair of real-number processors that can realize certain operations. HNN is a fully connected recurrent neural network based on the idea of the energy function, which is helpful to understand the calculation mode of HNN, and the research shows that HNN can solve many combinatorial optimization problems. In addition, the combination of neural network and genetic algorithm with simulated annealing mechanism can also bring new directions for research. On the basis of experimental analysis, it can be concluded that in general, the error reduction rate of the optimization scheme designed in this paper can reach 58.6% on average. In practical application, the accuracy of the optimal bit error rate is 52.4%.

Rubella, caused by the Rubella virus (RV), is considered a mild self-limited illness. However, RV has teratogenic potential. Laboratory investigation plays an important role in both diagnosis and surveillance of the disease. The main methods for diagnosing Rubella are serological assays for the detection of specific IgM and molecular assays for detecting viral RNA. However, some laboratories perform IgG avidity testing, virus isolation and analysis of genetic sequence as tools to help Rubella eradication. The importance of the diagnosis of Rubella involves the appropriate treatment of the disease, because the Rubella clinical symptoms may be similar to those of other diseases, and the population monitoring to avoid new emergent cases. This study addresses different methods of diagnosing Rubella and contributes as a source of knowledge to assist health systems in controlling the disease. The main objective of this study was to review the available patents regarding Rubella diagnosis published in intellectual property databases, and provides an overview of the technologies available for the diagnosis of Rubella. The search strategy was based on the keywords searched separately or together using a Boolean operator either in the patent title or abstract the time interval was restricted to patents filed or granted from January 2009 until February 2022. The database used was Google Patents. This study analyzed 24 patent documents regarding strategies for the diagnosis of Rubella. Of these, 15 patents disclose strategies for detecting Rubella antibodies, 7 patents the detection of Rubella virus nucleic acid, and 2 patents the production of antibodies applied in Rubella diagnosis. Rubella is still a public health problem in some countries, mainly those in development, especially due to congenital Rubella syndrome, which can cause malformation or fetal death. However, its diagnosis is challenging, due to similarity of symptoms with other diseases, and for this reason, laboratory diagnosis is essential. Studies like this encourage researchers and governments to invest in research to continue the development of new products, using different areas of biotechnology, to solve society's problems, especially diseases that have an impact on global health, such as Rubella.

Foodborne infections in the United States affect racial-ethnic minority and low-income populations at higher rates than the general population. To identify the prevalence of food safety behaviors and demographic characteristics associated with food handling practices among a susceptible, high-risk population, a cross-sectional survey was administered to 106 parents with children enrolled at two elementary schools serving predominantly low-income families in Houston, Texas. Relationships between demographic characteristics and food safety behavioral outcomes were examined using cross-tabulations and Fisher's exact test. Most respondents were female (93.4%), Hispanic, Latino, or Mexican American (94.9%), and had no previous food handling employment experience (75.0%). The primary source of food safety information reported was the Internet (32.7%), and nearly half of parents (42.7%) reported that they did not consider contamination of food with germs a serious food safety problem. Hand washing before food preparation was more common (98.0%) than before touching the refrigerator handle (66.3%), after electronic device use (55.6%), or after handling raw animal proteins (77.6%). The prevalence of fresh fruit (98.0%) and vegetable (97.9%) washing and appropriate contaminated cutting board handling (89.0%) was high among parents. Self-reported gaps in food handling behaviors identified included lack of food thermometer ownership (80.4%), use of reusable cleaning tools (71.0%), inappropriate defrosting methods (67.4%), and washing of raw poultry (86.3%), seafood (84.9%), and meat (74.7%). Hand washing after electronic device use and defrosting methods were observed to vary significantly according to demographic characteristics. Food safety education with messages targeted to specific demographic groups may be necessary to reduce the risk of foodborne disease among low-income parents and young children.

The equality in the distribution of vaccines between and within countries along with follow sanitation tips and observe social distance, are effective strategies to rid the world of COVID-19 pandemic. Inequality in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccine, in addition to causing inequity to the population health, has a significant impact on the process of economic recovery. All published original papers on the inequality of Covid-19 vaccine distribution and the factors affecting it were searched in PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus and ProQuest databases between December 2020 to 30 May 2022. Selection of articles, extraction of their data and qualitative assessment (by STROBE) were performed by two researchers separately. Data graphing form was used to extract detailed data from each study and then, the collected data were classified. A total of 4623 articles were evaluated. After removing duplicates and screening the title, abstract and full text of articles, 22 articles were selected and entered into the study. Fifteen (68.17%) studies were conducted in the United States, three (13.64%) in Europe, three (13.64%) in Asia and one (6.66%) in Oceania. Factors affecting the inequality in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccine were classified into macro and micro levels determinants. Macro determinants of inequality in the Covid-19 vaccine distribution were consisted of economic (stability and country's economic status, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita, financial support and human development index), infrastructure and health system (appropriate information system, functional cold chains in vaccine transport, transport infrastructure, medical and non-medical facilities per capita, healthcare access and quality), legal and politics (vaccination allocation rules, health policies, political ideology and racial bias), and epidemiologic and demographic factors (Covid-19 incidence and deaths rate, life expectancy, vulnerability to Covid-19, working in medical setting, comorbidities, social vulnerability, incarceration and education index). Moreover, micro/ individual level factors were included in economic (household's income, home ownership, employment, poverty, access to healthy food and residency in the deprived areas) and demographic and social characteristics (sex, age, race, ethnic, religion, disability, location (urban/rural) and insurance coverage).

The family cultural environment affects children's cognitive development and socialization processes, and different family cultural environments lead to differences in children's tourism experiences. The current research on children's tourism experiences demands a shift from the families' perspective to that of children's perspective. In response to this, grounded on the cognitive development theory, this paper, from the perspective of children's memorable parent-child tourism experience, uses 321 children's drawings to project the tourism elements, people, activities, scenes, and colors that children perceive from travel, reveals the main cognitive contents of children's parent-child tourism experiences. Furthermore, this paper analyzes the influence of family cultural background on children's tourism experiences through interviews with children. Our results show that with the growth of age, children's perception of elements changes from the macro level to the micro level, and the contents they perceive change from concrete to abstract. In addition, children have an acute perception of people and are impressed by novel activities during travel. They adapt well to changes in travel scenes and prefer bright and vibrant colors during trips. Therefore, we recommend the design of appropriate tourism products that combine the characteristics of children's experiences when offering parent-child travel programs, as well as upgrading the market of parent-child tourism experiences through novel activities.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental illness stigma has been long acknowledged as a social problem that continues to persist and contribute to social exclusion of affected persons globally. Researchers have explored mental illness stigma in the general public and among health professionals, with little focus on stigma from family members and close relatives of persons with mental illnesses. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study appears to be the first meta-synthesis of familial mental illness stigma in high-income countries. Family members or close relatives of persons with mental illnesses may be perpetrators of stigma. That is, the family may enact stigma of mental illness against their relative to "save face" or by avoiding or narrowing their social contacts. Familial stigma is harmful due to the likely disaffection it brings within one's home environment. Familial mental stigma from the existing literature seems to be a by-product of public stigma and stigma by association WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Further research is necessary to look at the existence of familial mental illness stigma as well as available policies to reduce its impact on affected individuals in high-income countries. Researchers in high-income countries should endeavour to examine the relationship between familial, public and associative stigma to establish baseline metrics to inform future anti-stigma programs seeking to reduce familial mental illness stigma. INTRODUCTION: Familial mental illness stigma is a pervasive issue but very subtle in high-income countries. Familial mental illness stigma implies persons living with mental illnesses are discriminated against by their family members or close relatives. This meta-synthesis explored the experiences of familial stigma among individuals living with mental illnesses in high-income countries, focusing on empirical literature, to understand the breadth of current literature and ways to reduce this form of stigma. We conducted a meta-synthesis through a structured search of qualitative data from six electronic databases (Sociological Abstract, CINAHL, Medline, PsycINFO, Google Scholar and Embase). Inclusion criteria comprised: empirical primary research, primary technique for data collection is qualitative, studies published in a peer-reviewed journal in the English language between 2000 and 2020, studies reported on experiences of familial mental illness stigma, and studies conducted in high-income countries. The exclusion criteria were as follows: all grey literature, studies not written in English and non-peer-reviewed, studies not focused on familial mental illness stigma, quantitative peer-reviewed articles on the related concept and peer-reviewed articles on the related topic before the year 2000. The study identified only 28 peer-reviewed articles on the topic within two decades. Concealment of familial stigma was found to be detrimental due to the potential for alienation within one's home environment. Disclosure and social contact within the family system were considered as critical interventions to provide some safety nets for individuals with mental illnesses. The paucity of studies over the review period highlights the need for further attention to support optimal environments for persons living with mental illnesses. Families' understanding of the difficulties of mental illness stigma is vital to supporting the development of policies and interventions towards the avoidance of social exclusion within societies. Families should make concerted efforts to reduce stigma, and this includes within the family system. Education and training approaches around mental illness-related stigma should involve individuals with lived experience and their families, as well as service providers and the general public.

The knowledge on health service use, systematic follow-up, and support for families bereaved by suicide remains scarce. This scoping review includes studies from 2010 to March 2022 that investigate the follow-up and support offered by health services, peer support services, and other resources available (e.g., internet-based resources) for families bereaved by suicide. We followed the scoping review framework provided by the Johanna Briggs Institute and performed a double-blinded screening process using Covidence. Data were extracted by four researchers and a thematic analysis was performed to summarize the results. The PRISMA Extension for Scoping reviews was used for reporting results. Of 2385 studies screened by title, 190 by abstract, and 93 by full-text reading, we included 63 original articles of which 24, 29 and 10 were quantitative, qualitative, or mixed-methods studies, respectively. The review shows that we have some knowledge about the need for, and experiences with, health services and support resources for immediate family members bereaved by suicide, but a lack of knowledge about their help-seeking behaviour, patient pathways, systematic follow-up, coordination between services, and long-term outcomes. We need more longitudinal observational studies of health service use and patient trajectories for people bereaved by suicide.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Losing a family member due to suicide has been described as a traumatic experience, as suicide-bereaved relatives grapple to accept the particular character of death and the core elements of guilt, self-criticism and stigma it inflicts. There are long-term consequences for those who bereave due to the suicide of their beloved on, a high risk for mental and physical health problems included. Feelings of guilt and self-stigma influence help-seeking behaviour among suicide-bereaved individuals. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Coping mechanisms adopted by suicide-bereaved individuals mediate the impact of suicide on their family, and especially on the quality of relationships among them. Supporting others in need can help alleviate guilt and self-blame for the suicide while it enables the bereaved to fulfil their need to keep a non-traumatizing, or even positive bond with the deceased. WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE ARE?: Nursing interventions to facilitate suicide-bereaved family members' participation in self-help support groups and promote their engagement in supporting others in need are important. Mental health nurses need to facilitate the replacement of dysfunctional coping strategies, such as substance use or self-blame with more adaptive ones focused on the personal needs of the bereaved, in order to help them embrace a non-traumatizing memory of the deceased while being in peace with the social environment. Screening for mental health problems and management of shame, self-stigma and guilt during the grieving period needs to be a priority in nursing interventions. INTRODUCTION: Losing a family member to suicide is a traumatic experience which includes guilt and self-stigma. Yet, there is lack of data synthesis on the survivors' experience. A meta-synthesis of qualitative data on the interpretation of loss in suicide-bereaved family members, their coping strategies and the effects on family. A meta-ethnographic synthesis following a systematic literature search and evaluation of the methodological quality of the selected studies was applied. The narratives of 326 individuals (parents/siblings/children/spouses) reported in sixteen studies were analysed. Trying to achieve a balance between keeping alive a non-traumatizing memory of the deceased, destigmatizing and liberating themselves from self-blame, self-criticism and guilt while being able to transform this experience into support towards others in need, was identified as the essence of the experience of the bereaved. Although suicide within a family is a traumatic experience, spiritual and existential implications among the bereaved have been reported; their coping mechanisms mediate the impact of suicide on family sustainability. Nursing interventions to facilitate adoption of coping strategies centred on keeping a non-traumatizing memory of the deceased among the bereaved and promote their participation in self-help groups and activities to support others in need are important.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Having a mental illness may undermine men's self-image as a father while having children may facilitate their recovery. Many fathers who experience mental health issues experience stigma and are reluctant to seek support in their parental role. Most studies in this field focus on fathers from Western countries. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Similar to Western fathers, Chinese fathers reported both negative parenting (parenting disengagement, harsh parenting and inconsistent discipline) and positive father-child interactions when ill. Unlike their Western counterparts, Chinese fathers relied on extended family support in their parenting role, though this support was problematic at times. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This research helps mental health nurses understand the experiences of Chinese fathers with mental illness. Findings suggest that specific cultural adaptions to family-focused interventions are needed for the Chinese context including considering extended family members (e.g. grandparents). INTRODUCTION: Parenting roles are important for those with a mental illness. While research on mothers is well established there is scant focus on fathers with mental illness, especially in non-Anglophone countries. To better understand the parenting and family experiences of fathers, who have a mental illness, from the People's Republic of China. Qualitative semi-structured interviews were conducted with nine Chinese fathers with mental illness, using Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis. Seven superordinate themes were identified: (i) mental illness undermines idealized images of fatherhood; (ii) parenting in the context of mental illness; (iii) concerns about the negative impact of their illness on children; (iv) children as a burden and a source of hope; (v) stigma; (vi) relying on family support; and (vii) unmet professional and peer support needs. Chinese fathers held a gendered image of fatherhood, and experienced self-stigma for not living up to their ideal sense of fatherhood, which resulted in a reluctance to seek support. This study adds to the existing literature by focusing on Chinese fathers. Although many of their experiences are similar to fathers from Western countries, some differences were found, notably around a reliance on extended family support. Nurses and other mental health professionals need to adopt a family-focused, culturally informed approach to supporting Chinese fathers with mental illness and their families.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Public shaming, especially by consumers of healthcare, is getting worse and has become a specific case of bullying Despite extensive research on physical and verbal violence directed towards mental health workers, the issue of social shaming and bullying by patients or relatives has not been sufficiently researched WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE: Mental healthcare workers are exposed to the threat of social shaming and bullying on a regular almost weekly basis Abusive behaviours by patients are associated with professional burnout, decreases in professional functioning and even a tendency to leave the workplace among mental health workers WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The stability and strength of the therapeutic alliance between healthcare giver and psychiatric patient are critical to the success of the treatment There is a need to develop a dedicated organizational policy for the prevention, early detection, intervention and support for teams exposed to social shaming and bullying An emphatic response, and effective intervention in a case of social shaming may improve professional functioning and reduce burnout and intention to leave. INTRODUCTION: Social shaming can impair caregivers' performance. The prevalence of shaming experienced by mental health workers and the relationships to their function or burnout is unknown. To examine the associations between exposure to social shaming and bullying by patients, the risk appraisal of negative impact of this behaviour, burnout, professional functioning and intention to leave among mental health workers. In this cross-sectional study, 122 workers from a psychiatric hospital completed a questionnaire. Participants reported exposure to social shaming and bullying by patients on a regular basis. Shaming and bullying were significantly associated with lower professional functioning and higher intention to leave, while burnout may at least partially mediate the association between these variables. The phenomenon of shaming and bullying of mental health workers by patients is common and is associated with lower functioning and higher burnout, which have a negative impact on the patient-caregiver interaction. There is a need to establish a policy for early detection of shaming of mental health workers in order to prevent burnout or intention to leave. Evidence based interventions, such as the Safewards model, accompanied by assessment of their effectiveness, may help in this effort.

Suicide is a major and preventable cause of death worldwide. Means restriction aims to reduce the rate of completed suicides by limiting public access to lethal suicide methods. Means restriction of agents used in poisoning is more controversial because there is potential to switch to other lethal methods. To identify the changes in suicide rate by the targeted poison and the corresponding changes in suicide by other methods. Five databases (MEDLINE, Embase, Scopus, PsycInfo, and Web of Science) were searched for studies on national means restriction of poison that were published in the English language from inception until December 31, 2019. Of the 7657 articles that were screened by title and abstract, 62 studies were included in the analysis. Sixty-two studies from 26 countries in Europe, the US, Australia, Asia, and the United Kingdom were included in the review. The studies included restrictions on pesticides (15 countries), domestic gas (14 countries), motor vehicle exhaust (9 countries), and pharmaceuticals (8 countries). The median (IQR) change in method-specific suicide rates was -1.18 (-2.03 to -0.46) per 100 000 people after restrictions, whereas the median (IQR) change in other methods of suicide (not the restricted poison) was -0.09 (-2.22 to 1.65) per 100 000 people. Decreases in suicide by the restricted poison were not associated with increases in suicide by other methods. An estimated 57 355 poison-specific suicides annually (before the interventions were implemented) may have benefited the most from means restriction. This systematic review found that means restriction of poison was associated with decreased method-specific suicide rates without an equivalent shift toward the use of other methods. Suicide prevention strategies need to address both individuals who are at risk and population-level policies.

Current evidence on the association between family history of psychiatric disorders and postpartum depression is inconsistent; family studies have identified familial risk of postpartum depression, whereas systematic reviews and umbrella reviews, compiling all risk factors for postpartum depression, often have not. To investigate the association between family history of psychiatric disorders and risk of developing postpartum depression within 12 months post partum. Literature searches were conducted in PubMed, Embase, and PsycINFO in September 2021 and updated in March 2022, accompanied by citation and reference search. Studies eligible for inclusion comprised peer-reviewed cohort and case-control studies reporting an odds ratio (OR) or sufficient data to calculate one for the association between family history of any psychiatric disorder and postpartum depression. Study selection was made by 2 independent reviewers: title and abstract screening followed by full-text screening. Reporting was performed using the MOOSE checklist. Two reviewers independently extracted predefined information and assessed included studies for risk of bias using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. Data were pooled in a meta-analysis using a random-effects model. Heterogeneity was investigated with meta-regression, subgroup, and sensitivity analyses. Publication bias was investigated using a funnel plot, and GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) was used to evaluate the overall certainty of the findings. The primary outcome was the pooled association between family history of psychiatric disorders and postpartum depression. A total of 26 studies were included, containing information on 100 877 women. Meta-analysis showed an increased OR of developing postpartum depression when mothers had a family history of psychiatric disorders (OR, 2.08; 95% CI, 1.67-2.59; I2 = 57.14%) corresponding to a risk ratio of 1.79 (95% CI, 1.52-2.09), assuming a 15% postpartum depression prevalence in the general population. Subgroup, sensitivity, and meta-regression analyses were in line with the primary analysis. The overall certainty of evidence was deemed as moderate according to GRADE. In this study, there was moderate certainty of evidence for an almost 2-fold higher risk of developing postpartum depression among mothers who have a family history of any psychiatric disorder compared with mothers without.

The objective of this review is to identify the outcomes of family presence at the bedside of critically ill children in pediatric intensive care units (PICUs) that have been reported in the literature. PICU admission is traumatic for critically ill children and their family members, and family presence may alleviate negative outcomes. Family presence may change with family member, patient, health care provider, and institutional circumstances. Prior to designing studies to assess the outcomes of family presence at the bedside, or to conducting a systematic review of the literature, a scoping review is needed to systematically identify and map the outcomes for stakeholders. This review will include literature addressing outcomes of family presence at the bedside in the PICU on the patient, family members, and health care providers. Emotional, social, psychological, and physiological outcomes will be considered, including outcomes on the provision of PICU care. A systematic search will be undertaken across four databases and several sources of gray literature. The review will not be restricted by language, and will be limited to sources published after 1960. The search strategy was designed using text words from titles and abstracts of relevant studies. Title and abstract screening, followed by full text assessment of sources against inclusion criteria, will be completed in duplicate. Data will be extracted by two independent reviewers using a data extraction tool developed by the study team. Data will be presented in tabular format to address findings related to the review objectives.

Outreach is as a strategy employed by those in health and social services, which generally involves establishing relationships and providing support to people situated in hard-to-reach and hidden populations. However, there is a lack of clarity across the literature on how outreach is conceptualized, the central elements of outreach as a program and practice, and how the 'success' of outreach is empirically measured. Such gaps limit understandings of how outreach can be most effectively implemented and evaluated. The purpose of this scoping review responds to these challenges by systematically examining how outreach has been conceptualized, operationalized, and evaluated in community settings with hard-to-reach and hidden populations. This scoping review approach was undertaken in accordance with the 6-step framework developed by Arksey and O'Malley and advanced by Levac and colleagues. The search was conducted across four databases (CINAHL, MEDLINE, PubMed, and PsycINFO) and included research, review, and non-empirical articles published in English between January 1, 2008 and April 20, 2020.16,238 records were screened by title and abstract, followed by a review of 654 full-text articles and critical appraisal of 67 articles. Forty-two articles were included in the review, including 28 research articles (90%), two review, and two non-empirical. Findings illustrate that there is considerable variation in how outreach is conceptualized, implemented, and evaluated across the literature. Further, outreach is often inadequately defined, and predominantly overlooks the underlying and systemic reasons for clients' "disengagement" from health and social care. Outreach providers and researchers are encouraged to draw on client-led aims, goals, and outcome measures to determine the enactment, evaluation, and measurement of outreach, and to explicitly position outreach as working alongside clients to remove structural barriers to care.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Although sexual violence is prevalent, incidents of stranger rape remain statistically uncommon. Societal stigma and myths surrounding sexual violence are widespread. An individual's experience in the immediate aftermath and beyond can be shaped by the perception/s of sexual violence which are held and expressed by those they come into contact with. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper adds to the limited literature base and the population and practical-knowledge gap around a specific form of sexual violence. This paper also demonstrates the need for reflection and discussion in minimizing blame that can unconsciously be shifted onto survivors in the form of myths and stereotypical views of sexual violence. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Perceptions may be held around sexual violence, and by extension about the survivor, which may impede engagement and the building of trust within a therapeutic relationship. Myths that are synonymous with rape and all forms of sexual violence can be held by professionals, and lead to blame, negative judgement and lack of empathy towards survivors. Given the prevalence of sexual violence, this paper is applicable across all health and social care settings, and in particular mental health nursing professionals who may be more likely to meet people who have experienced sexual trauma. ABSTRACT: Introduction This narrative illustrates the lived experience of a specific form of sexual violence (stranger rape) and its resulting implications as experienced by the second author, which is discussed under the following headings: your body as a crime scene, how lived experience compares to the myth of the 'real rape' and the wellbeing and health consequences arising from the experience. [Correction added on 5 September 2022, after first online publication: The preceding paragraph has been corrected in this version.] Aim In their capacity as mental health nurses, the authors invite readers to consider the spoken, or more likely unheard stories of sexual violence, which are unfortunately commonplace among those who access mental health services. Implications for Practice For professionals holding the privileged position of hearing these stories, there is a need to be reflective as to how fear, and personal or professionally held myths and stigmatizing views of sexual violence, and by extension views towards the survivor, are carried into therapeutic spaces, and the implications these can have. Practical suggestions as to how to discuss and manage disclosure of sexual violence in the context of trauma informed care are also provided.

To determine the parsimonious model of the interrelationships of personal resilience, social support, loneliness and quality of life (QoL) and to identify the mediating effect of loneliness among nursing students amidst the pandemic. The coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic led to control measures which increased loneliness among students due to disrupted social connections and sudden shift to virtual learning. During these changes, resilience and social support can significantly influence how learners deal with pandemic-related stresses thus, minimizing loneliness and enhancing QoL. Although studies posited the influence of resilience and social support with loneliness and QoL, these were conducted prior the COVID-19 pandemic wherein loneliness and feelings of isolation play a crucial part. Correlational, theory testing using covariance-based structural equation modeling METHODS: A total of 550 nursing students from a comprehensive university in Manila, Philippines were recruited from September to October 2021 and answered four standardized, validated scales. A good and parsimonious model (x Social support and personal resilience positively affected QoL, while loneliness had a negative effect. Through the mediation of loneliness, the effects of social support on QoL decreases. However, the mediation of resilience further decreases loneliness and improves QoL. The presented model assists nurse educators and administrators in developing strategies to enhance social support, resilience and QoL among students while mitigating the negative effects loneliness during the pandemic. Loneliness and Resilience are mediators of student nurses' quality of life during COVID-19 pandemic. Social support is the common predictor.

This study formed the third phase of a national study on the experience of transition from child to adult health services for young adults with intellectual disabilities. The aim of this phase was to evaluate the accessibility and acceptability of an on-line learning resource for Registered Nurses. The population of young adults with intellectual disabilities and complex needs is increasing. Consequently, more will move from child to adult healthcare, with evidence highlighting that for some their experiences of the transition process is poor. The main study provided contemporary evidence to raise the awareness of Registered Nurses of the needs of young adults with intellectual disabilities and their role in enabling an effective transition from child to adult services. The online learning resource was developed and piloted with Registered Nurses involved in the transition from child to adult health services for young adults with intellectual disabilities and complex needs. Data collection involved an online survey and semi-structured interviews. Twelve Registered Nurses from 2 Scottish NHS Boards completed the questionnaire and 3 participated in a follow-up interview. The findings suggest that the mode of on-line delivery and most of the content of the learning resource were both acceptable and accessible to Registered Nurses across a range of areas of nursing practice. The learning resource was further adapted in response to the participant data. This on-line learning resources offers the potential for Registered Nurses, and potentially other healthcare professionals to undertake evidence-based, structured further education regarding the effective transitions for young adults with intellectual disabilities and their families. Registered Nurses have key contributions to enable the transition from child to adult healthcare for young adults with intellectual disabilities.

Gender-based violence is a key global concern due to the high prevalence and increased socio-economic burden for survivors. However, estimation of the prevalence of gender-based violence is difficult due to differences in study design and underreporting of abuse, especially in developing nations. Therefore, we conducted this study to estimate the prevalence of Gender-based violence among women living in the SAARC region. The review protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD42020219577). Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were followed throughout the review. A thorough database search was conducted to identify studies done in the SAARC region. Title and abstract screening were done in Covidence, followed by a full-text review. Data were extracted and pooled for analysis using the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Subgroup analysis was done where possible. A total of 76 studies were included in the systematic review and metaanalysis. The community prevalence of domestic violence (DV) was 43.8% (95% CI, 35.1% - 52.9%), GBV prevalence was 34.9% (95% CI, 30.2% - 39.9%) and IPV prevalence was 39.8% (95% CI, 30.7% - 49.6%). GBV prevalence was highest in illiterate women [54.2% (95% CI, 46.8% - 61.5%)] and lowest among women with higher than secondary level education [23.1% (95% CI, 16.2% - 32.0%)]. The prevalence of GBV among women in pregnancy or postpartum period was 32.3% (95% CI, 25.1% - 40.4%, I2: 98.64), while among female sexual workers, the prevalence of Gender-based violence was 42.1% (95% CI, 28.1% - 57.5%, I2: 99.25). There is a high prevalence of Gender-based violence in the SAARC region. Higher socioeconomic status and educational status are protective factors for Gender-based violence. However, more studies using validated tools are needed to understand the true extent of the problem.

Children who are deaf or hard of hearing (D/HH) are at increased risk for neurocognitive delays, which can have cascading effects on development. Associations between neurocognition and the content of parental language-specifically the use of mental state vocabulary-have been observed in typically hearing (TH) children. This study investigated the role of parental use of mental state language (e.g., vocabulary related to thought processes, desires, and emotions) in explaining variability in neurocognition in children who are D/HH. Dyads of 62 TH and 69 D/HH children who wear hearing aids or cochlear implants (ages 3-8 years) and their primary parent were videorecorded during a 20-min play session. Specific mental state words used by parents were extracted. Child neurocognition (specifically, inhibitory control) was assessed using norm-referenced measures. Parent use of mental state language predicted child inhibitory control differentially based on hearing status, with a significant relation in the D/HH but not the TH group. Mental state vocabulary related to cognition (e.g., "think," "know"), but not to desire (e.g., "want," "like") or emotion (e.g., "feel," "frustrated"), predicted child inhibitory control in the D/HH group. Finally, there was a significant relation between the use of first person, but not second or third person, mental state verbs (e.g., "I think") and child inhibitory control. Parental use of cognitive mental state vocabulary models language around thought processes, and parents' use of first-person referents models "self-talk." Modeling of these linguistic forms is likely foundational for developing self-regulation. Children who are D/HH often experience reduced auditory access and/or language delays and thus rely on high-quality parental language input for longer periods of development than their TH peers. Continued support from interventionists is indicated to coach parents to be high-quality models of more abstract, decontextualized language, supporting complex language development and inhibitory control in children who are D/HH.

Animal-assisted activities have demonstrated benefits for patients and clinicians in acute care settings. However, concern exists regarding the use of animal-assisted activities in intensive care settings. To synthesise research evidence on animal-assisted activities in intensive care units. A scoping review of research literature published in English was undertaken. In May 2021, five databases (CINAHL, MEDLINE, Embase, Scopus and PSYCInfo) were systematically searched. Title, abstract and then full text screening was undertaken independently by the research team. Six primary research studies were identified from the 1190 records screened. All six studies were of a feasibility or observational study design, with five of the studies published in the last three years, highlighting the emerging evidence base for this practice. This scoping review synthesises the key characteristics of animal-assisted activities in intensive care units, including risk mitigation strategies. Strong satisfaction with and support for animal-assisted activities was reported by patients, family members and clinicians. However, studies reporting biophysical outcomes were inconclusive due to small sample sizes. Evidence supporting animal-assisted activities in intensive care units remains largely anecdotal. Further research is required to ascertain the feasibility, appropriateness, meaningfulness and effectiveness of animal-assisted activities for improving patient outcomes, and family members and intensive care clinicians' wellness.

The risk of congenital heart disease (CHD) has been found to vary by maternal socioeconomic status (SES) and rural-urban residence. In this study, we examined associations of CHD with two maternal SES indicators and stratified the analysis by maternal rural-urban residence. This was a population-based retrospective cohort study. We included all singleton stillbirths and live hospital births from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2018 in Ontario, Canada. We linked the BORN Information System and Canadian Institute for Health Information databases. Multivariable logistic regression models were used to examine associations of CHD with material deprivation index (MDI), social deprivation index (SDI), and maternal residence while adjusting for maternal age at birth, assisted reproductive technology, obesity, pre-pregnancy maternal health conditions, mental health illness before and during pregnancy, substance use during pregnancy, and infant's sex. MDI and SDI were estimated at a dissemination area level in Ontario and were categorized into quintiles (Q1-Q5). This cohort study included 798,173 singletons. In maternal urban residence, the p trend (Cochran-Armitage test) was less than 0.0001 for both MDI and SDI; while for rural residence, it was 0.002 and 0.98, respectively. Infants living in the most materially deprived neighbourhoods (MDI Q5) had higher odds of CHD (aOR: 1.21, 95% CI: 1.12-1.29) compared to Q1. Similarly, infants living in the most socially deprived neighbourhoods (SDI Q5) had an 18% increase in the odds of CHD (aOR: 1.18, 95% CI: 1.1-1.26) compared to Q1. Rural infants had a 13% increase in the odds of CHD compared to their urban counterparts. After stratifying by maternal rural-urban residence, we still detected higher odds of CHD with two indices in urban residence but only MDI in rural residence. Higher material and social deprivation and rural residence were associated with higher odds of CHD. Health interventions and policies should reinforce the need for optimal care for all families, particularly underprivileged families in both rural and urban regions. Future studies should further investigate the effect of social deprivation on the risk of CHD development.

Youth mental health challenges are an emerging and persistent global public health issue despite efforts for improvement. As part of a broader social innovation study to transform youth mental health systems, this scoping review assesses interventions that aim for systems-level changes to improve the mental well-being of transitional age youth (TAY) (15-25 years) in high-income countries. The scoping review method of Arksey and O'Malley (International Journal of Social Research Methodology, 8, 2005, 19) was used. Seven health and social service databases were utilized with study inclusion criteria applied. Titles and abstracts were screened by two independent reviewers, and four members of the research team were involved in the review and thematic analysis of selected studies. A total of 5652 peer-reviewed articles were screened at the title and abstract level, of which 65 were assessed in full for eligibility, and 29 were included for final analysis. The peer-reviewed articles and gray literature were based in seven different high-income countries and published between 2008 and 2019. Four major themes to support youth mental health were identified in the literature: (a) improving transitions from youth to adult mental healthcare services; (b) moving care from institutions to the community; (c) general empowerment of youth in society; and (d) youth voice within the system. Inconsistent or limited systems-level approaches to TAY mental health care were noted. There remains a need for innovative, evidence-based approaches to improve TAY mental health care.

When a Gap Leads to an Answer 

To explore the impact of private equity ownership of ophthalmology practices on the success of their clinical research programs. Private equity partnership in the clinical research space has been steadily occurring over the past decades. In addition to contract research organizations, private equity groups have also consolidated multiple independent clinical research networks. By investing in an increasing number of retina practices, one private equity group is attempting to create a synergistic relationship between clinical practice and clinical research with the goal of supporting a larger, more robust clinical research network. Although there are physician concerns about the potential deleterious effects of private equity ownership on clinical research capabilities, private equity support has the potential to be an important stimulus for clinical research growth. http://links.lww.com/COOP/A48.

The objective was to identify the most important and impactful peer-reviewed global emergency medicine (GEM) articles published in 2021. The top articles are summarized in brief narratives and accompanied by a comprehensive list of all identified articles that address the topic during the year to serve as a reference for clinicians, researchers, and policy makers. A systematic PubMed search was carried out to identify all GEM articles published in 2021. Title and abstract screening was performed by trained reviewers and editors to identify articles in one of three categories based on predefined criteria: disaster and humanitarian response (DHR), emergency care in resource-limited settings (ECRLS), and emergency medicine development (EMD). Included articles were each scored by two reviewers using established rubrics for original (OR) and review (RE) articles. The top 5% of articles overall and the top 5% of articles from each category (DHR, ECRLS, EMD, OR, and RE) were included for narrative summary. The 2021 search identified 44,839 articles, of which 444 articles screened in for scoring, 25% and 22% increases from 2020, respectively. After removal of duplicates, 23 articles were included for narrative summary. ECRLS constituted the largest category (n = 16, 70%), followed by EMD (n = 4, 17%) and DHR (n = 3, 13%). The majority of top articles were OR (n = 14, 61%) compared to RE (n = 9, 39%). The GEM peer-reviewed literature continued to grow at a fast rate in 2021, reflecting the continued expansion and maturation of this subspecialty of emergency medicine. Few high-quality articles focused on DHR and EMD, suggesting a need for further efforts in those fields. Future efforts should focus on improving the diversity of GEM research and equitable representation.

Loneliness in Adolescents Against the Background of the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Risk Factor 

The wellbeing of older adults is positively impacted by ease of access to social networks and opportunities. In urban fringe communities, longer geographical distances, combined with mobility and health issues, can lead to decreased access to community life. Technology can facilitate socialisation opportunities for older adults living in more geographically isolated locations, but we need to work with communities to better understand how technology can fit into their 

Menopause denotes the end of a woman's reproductive life. A woman's experiences of menopause are shaped by her individual circumstances and may vary between social and cultural contexts. Evidence is needed to inform research and programme delivery that supports women's health and well-being throughout the menopausal transition. This scoping review will map evidence of women's experiences of menopause in Asia Pacific countries, where limited research exists. We will follow the five-stage framework of Arksey and O'Malley, further developed by Levac  Ethical approval is not required for this scoping review of selected studies from peer-reviewed journals. Ethical approval has been granted from relevant ethics committees for community consultation. Findings will be shared in peer-reviewed publications, presented at conferences and disseminated with communities, health workers and researchers.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network guideline adherence improves cancer outcomes. In rectal cancer, guideline adherence is distributed differently by race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and insurance. This study aimed to determine the independent effects of race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status, and insurance status on rectal cancer survival after accounting for differences in guideline adherence. This was a retrospective study. The study was conducted using the California Cancer Registry. This study included patients aged 18 to 79 years diagnosed with rectal adenocarcinoma between January 1, 2004, and December 31, 2017, with follow-up through November 30, 2018. Investigators determined whether patients received guideline-adherent care. ORs and 95% CIs were used for logistic regression to analyze patients receiving guideline-adherent care. Disease-specific survival analysis was calculated using Cox regression models. A total of 30,118 patients were examined. Factors associated with higher odds of guideline adherence included Asian and Hispanic race/ethnicity, managed care insurance, and high socioeconomic status. Asians (HR, 0.80; 95% CI, 0.72-0.88; p < 0.001) and Hispanics (HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.83-0.99; p = 0.0279) had better disease-specific survival in the nonadherent group. Race/ethnicity were not factors associated with disease-specific survival in the guideline adherent group. Medicaid disease-specific survival was worse in both the nonadherent group (HR, 1.56; 95% CI, 1.40-1.73; p < 0.0001) and the guideline-adherent group (HR, 1.18; 95% CI, 1.08-1.30; p = 0.0005). Disease-specific survival of the lowest socioeconomic status was worse in both the nonadherent group (HR, 1.42; 95% CI, 1.27-1.59) and the guideline-adherent group (HR, 1.20; 95% CI, 1.08-1.34). Limitations included unmeasured confounders and the retrospective nature of the review. Race, socioeconomic status, and insurance are associated with guideline adherence in rectal cancer. Race/ethnicity was not associated with differences in disease-specific survival in the guideline-adherent group. Medicaid and lowest socioeconomic status had worse disease-specific survival in both the guideline nonadherent group and the guideline-adherent group. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B954 . ANTECEDENTES: El cumplimiento de las guías de la National Comprehensive Cancer Network mejora los resultados del cáncer. En el cáncer de recto, el cumplimiento de las guías se distribuye de manera diferente según la raza/origen étnico, nivel socioeconómico y el cobertura médica.OBJETIVO: Determinar los efectos independientes de la raza/origen étnico, el nivel socioeconómico y el estado de cobertura médica en la supervivencia del cáncer de recto después de tener en cuenta las diferencias en el cumplimiento de las guías.DISEÑO: Este fue un estudio retrospectivo.ENTORNO CLINICO: El estudio se realizó utilizando el Registro de Cáncer de California.PACIENTES: Pacientes de 18 a 79 años diagnosticados con adenocarcinoma rectal entre el 1 de enero de 2004 y el 31 de diciembre de 2017 con seguimiento hasta el 30 de noviembre de 2018. Los investigadores determinaron si los pacientes recibieron atención siguiendo las guías.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO: Se utilizaron razones de probabilidad e intervalos de confianza del 95 % para la regresión logística para analizar a los pacientes que recibían atención con adherencia a las guías. El análisis de supervivencia específico de la enfermedad se calculó utilizando modelos de regresión de Cox.RESULTADOS: Se analizaron un total de 30.118 pacientes. Los factores asociados con mayores probabilidades de cumplimiento de las guías incluyeron raza/etnicidad asiática e hispana, seguro de atención administrada y nivel socioeconómico alto. Los asiáticos e hispanos tuvieron una mejor supervivencia específica de la enfermedad en el grupo no adherente HR 0,80 (95 % CI 0,72 - 0,88, p < 0,001) y HR 0,91 (95 % CI 0,83 - 0,99, p = 0,0279). La raza o el origen étnico no fueron factores asociados con la supervivencia específica de la enfermedad en el grupo que cumplió con las guías. La supervivencia específica de la enfermedad de Medicaid fue peor tanto en el grupo no adherente HR 1,56 (IC del 95 % 1,40 - 1,73, p < 0,0001) como en el grupo adherente a las guías HR 1,18 (IC del 95 % 1,08 - 1,30, p = 0,0005). La supervivencia específica de la enfermedad del nivel socioeconómico más bajo fue peor tanto en el grupo no adherente HR 1,42 (IC del 95 %: 1,27 a 1,59) como en el grupo adherente a las guías HR 1,20 (IC del 95 %: 1,08 a 1,34).LIMITACIONES: Las limitaciones incluyeron factores de confusión no medidos y la naturaleza retrospectiva de la revisión.CONCLUSIONES: La raza, el nivel socioeconómico y cobertura médica están asociados con la adherencia a las guías en el cáncer de recto. La raza/etnicidad no se asoció con diferencias en la supervivencia específica de la enfermedad en el grupo que cumplió con las guías. Medicaid y el nivel socioeconómico más bajo tuvieron peor supervivencia específica de la enfermedad tanto en el grupo que no cumplió con las guías como en los grupos que cumplieron. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B954 . (Traducción- Dr. Francisco M. Abarca-Rendon).

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide, with significantly worse CVD outcomes in ethnic minorities in developed countries, especially South Asians, compared with the prevailing white ethnic group. This protocol outlines the process for conducting a systematic literature review to investigate the CVD outcome inequalities between South Asian and white Caucasian ethnic groups. Studies that compared the South Asian ethnic minority with the predominant white ethnicity in developed countries with CVD will be included from inception to 22 April 2021. We will search MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science and grey literature to find all relevant peer-reviewed articles, reports and online theses. Articles will be screened using inclusion/exclusion criteria applied first at the title and abstract level, and then full texts, both by two independent reviewers. Articles kept in the review will undergo a risk of bias assessment using the Quality In Prognosis Studies tool and data will be extracted. Random-effects meta-analysis and heterogeneity tests will be undertaken, and tests for publication bias, outlying highly-influential observations. If insufficient data is founded or studies are highly heterogeneous, a narrative synthesis will be conducted. Formal ethical approval is not required for this review. The results and findings of this systematic literature review will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and reports. CRD42021240865.

Growing up with siblings has been linked to numerous health outcomes and is also an important determinant for the developing microbiota. Nonetheless, research into the role of having siblings on the developing microbiota has mainly been incidental. Here, we investigate the specific effects of having siblings on the developing airway and gut microbiota using a total of 4497 hypopharyngeal and fecal samples taken from 686 children in the COPSAC Having siblings is one of the most important factors influencing a child's developing microbiota, and the specific effects may explain previously established associations between siblings and asthma and infectious diseases. As such, siblings should be considered in all studies involving the developing microbiota, with emphasis on the age gap to the closest older sibling rather than the number of siblings. Video abstract.

The association between belonging to a disadvantaged socio-economic status or social class and health outcomes has been consistently documented during recent decades. However, a meta-analysis quantifying the association between belonging to a lower social class and the risk of dementia has yet to be performed. In the present work, we sought to summarise the results of prospective, longitudinal studies on this topic. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective, longitudinal studies measuring the association between indicators of social class and the risk of all-cause/Alzheimer's dementia. The search was conducted in four databases (Medline, Embase, Web of Science and PsychInfo). Inclusion criteria for this systematic review and meta-analysis were: (a) longitudinal prospective study, (b) aged ⩾60 years at baseline, (c) issued from the general population, (d) no dementia at baseline and (e) mention of social class as exposure. Exclusion criteria were: (a) study of rare dementia types (e.g. frontotemporal dementia), (b) abstract-only papers and (c) articles without full text available. The Newcastle-Ottawa scale was used to assess the risk of bias in individual studies. We calculated the overall pooled relative risk of dementia for different social class indicators, both crude and adjusted for sex, age and the year of the cohort start. Out of 4548 screened abstracts, 15 were included in the final analysis (76,561 participants, mean follow-up 6.7 years (2.4-25 years), mean age at baseline 75.1 years (70.6-82.1 years), mean percentage of women 58%). Social class was operationalised as levels of education, occupational class, income level, neighbourhood disadvantage and wealth. Education (relative risk (RR)=2.48; confidence interval (CI) 1.71-3.59) and occupational class (RR=2.09; CI 1.18-3.69) but not income (RR=1.28; CI 0.81-2.04) were significantly associated with the risk of dementia in the adjusted model. Some of the limitations of this study are the inclusion of studies predominantly conducted in high-income countries and the exclusion of social mobility in our analysis.

The emergence of a regional or global scale infectious disease outbreak often requires the implementation of economic relief programmes in affected jurisdictions to sustain societal welfare and, presumably, population health. While economic relief programmes are considered essential during a regional or global health crisis, there is no clear consensus in the literature about their health and non-health benefits and their impact on promoting equity. Thus, our objective is to map the current state of the literature with respect to the types of individual-level economic relief programmes implemented during infectious disease outbreaks and the impact of these programmes on the effectiveness of public health measures, individual and population health, non-health benefits and equity. Our scoping review is guided by the updated Arksey and O'Malley scoping review framework. Eligible studies will be identified in eight electronic databases and grey literature using text words and subject headings of the different pandemic and epidemic infectious diseases that have occurred, and economic relief programmes. Title and abstract screening and full-text screening will be conducted independently by two trained study reviewers. Data will be extracted using a pretested data extraction form. The charting of the key findings will follow a thematic narrative approach. Our review findings will provide in-depth knowledge on whether and how benefits associated with pandemic/epidemic individual-level economic relief programmes differ across social determinants of health factors.This information is critical for decision-makers as they seek to understand the role of pandemic/epidemic economic mitigation strategies to mitigate the health impact and reduce inequity gap. Since the scoping review methodology aims to synthesise evidence from literature, this review does not require ethical approval. Findings of our review will be disseminated to health stakeholders at policy meetings and conferences; published in a peer-review scientific journal; and disseminated on various social media platforms.

Although many screening tools, resources, and programs for identifying victims of human trafficking exist, consensus is lacking on which tools are most useful, which have been validated, and whether they are effective. The objectives of this study were to determine what tools exist to identify or screen for victims of human trafficking in health care settings and whether these tools have been validated. We conducted a scoping review of the literature on human trafficking identification in health care settings following the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses) protocol for scoping reviews. We searched the MEDLINE, PsycInfo, Embase, and Scopus databases without language or date limitations. Two independent reviewers screened each citation. We included human research studies in English with populations of all ages, all genders, all geographic locations, and using quantitative and/or qualitative research methods. We excluded studies that were not conducted in a health care setting, review articles, and meta-analyses. We summarized additional screening tools available online and identified through hand-searching. Database searches yielded 8730 studies, of which 4806 remained after removing duplicates. We excluded 4720 articles based on title/abstract review, we reviewed 85 full-text studies for eligibility, and we included 8 articles. Hand-searching revealed 9 additional screening tools not found in the literature. Through our search for validated screening tools, only 6 had been studied for validation in health care settings. Few studies have evaluated screening tools for identifying victims of human trafficking in health care settings. The absence of a gold standard for human trafficking screening and lack of consensus on the definition of human trafficking make screening tool validation difficult. Further research is required for the development of safe, effective approaches to patient screening.

This essay is about health policies. Included are the definition of health policy, the descriptions of the concepts of a conceptual model of nursing and health policy, and examples of various sources of health policies. A central thesis of this essay is that practice guidelines are largely unrecognized as health policies. This thesis provides the connection between the abstract idea of a health policy and what is done in nursing practice. The essay concludes with examples of research questions about nursing and health policies.

Reports an error in "Effects of a statewide pre-kindergarten program on children's achievement and behavior through sixth grade" by Kelley Durkin, Mark W. Lipsey, Dale C. Farran and Sarah E. Wiesen (

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: A significant proportion of fathers report experiencing depression after their baby is born Fathers are not offered regular support for their psychological well-being in the transition to parenthood despite an acknowledged need for such support WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Lived experience provides new insight into how one father experienced postnatal depression, including the role of his partner in help-seeking It explains the delayed presentation in help-seeking as resulting from healthcare practitioner language and attitudes, and gendered expectations around mental health and help-seeking in the context of fatherhood WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING?: Mental health nurses should be aware that postnatal depression can affect fathers as well as mothers, and that it is necessary to support fathers in safe spaces and with appropriate language Planning care for depression in men should consider the recent birth of a child in order to provide effective care Clearer guidance is needed for supporting new fathers with postnatal depression ABSTRACT: Introduction Fathers are not universally supported with their perinatal mental health, but evidence shows that they suffer at a similar level to mothers. Aim This paper examines the journey of one father through his PND experience, his help seeking, and encounters in healthcare, in order to highlight the needs of a depressed father. Method The method is a father's lived experience narrative which has been written alongside a health visitor who highlights the relevance of the condition to healthcare practice. Results & Discussion The needs of fathers are unmet. They require support which considers their gender role expectations. Partners are key to their help seeking. Implications for practice The language and sensitivity used by nurses is key to encouraging fathers to share their depression and reduce stigma around the condition.

To (a) explore risk indicators related to interpersonal violence occurring under the influence of alcohol and to (b) search for interventions addressed towards violence perpetrators to prevent violence occurring under the influence of alcohol. Mixed method systematic review. This study has been registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews with register number CRD42021217848. A systematic search was conducted on PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO and Scopus in October 2021. Two researchers independently examined 1076 papers following the inclusion criteria. After three rounds of selection (title, abstract and full text), the quality and bias assessments were conducted independently by two reviewers. The data were analysed with inductive and deductive content analyses. Of the 1076 papers retrieved, 16 papers were eligible for inclusion, addressing 13 different interventions. Interventions were divided into three types (individual-, group- and family-level) and were constructed on several background frameworks, with cognitive behavioural therapy being the most common framework. Family-level interventions seemed to yield the most effective results. Violence occurring under the influence of alcohol was mostly researched as men being the perpetrators and women being the victims of violence. Several indicators that increased the risk of violence victimization or perpetration, such as trait jealousy and disparity in education, were identified. Interventions emerging from the systematic review were heterogenous, and the outcomes of the interventions were versatile. The disparity between interventions and outcome measures made it challenging to reliably compare the effectiveness between interventions. Using standardized outcome measure instruments and unifying research on interventions are needed to reliably assess the effectiveness of different interventions.

This article aims to identify and map the actions to promote, protect and support breastfeeding that are carried out within the prison system. Scope review, whose searches were performed in the Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature and Nursing databases, Virtual Health Library, Medical Literature, Analysis, and Retrieval System Online, via PubMed, Scientific Electronic Library Online and the Capes Periodicals Portal. A total of 465 studies were obtained, 177 duplicates and 175 by title exclusion were removed, 56 articles were eliminated by abstract, and eight articles were not found. After selection and reading by the review team, 16 articles were removed, thus constituting ten articles with relevant results for breastfeeding promotion in prison, 13 articles with important results for breastfeeding protection in prison, and ten articles with potential findings for breastfeeding support in prison. It is necessary to promote breastfeeding in prison with promotion, protection and support actions, because many children are still prevented from being breastfed soon after birth, which characterizes inequality in relation to the population in freedom.

To develop a theoretical definition of self-organization to increase the understanding of the Reconceptualized Uncertainty in Illness Theory (RUIT). Mishel described the change of the uncertainty appraisal over time in people with a chronic illness by means of the RUIT. Therefore, she introduced the concept of self-organization. However, its meaning is difficult to comprehend because its descriptions remained highly abstract. A principle-based concept analysis. Entries of lexicons and journal publications, explicitly or implicitly addressing self-organization in the context of any social phenomenon. We conducted a conceptually driven literature search in lexicons and four databases and performed citation tracking. Self-organization stands for a transition between psychological instability and psychological adjustment. It is conditioned by illness-related obstacles or uncertainties that are perceived as life-threatening. This adaptation process shows overlaps with cognitive reframing and is promoted by time, resilience, social support, and positive development of the disease. It leads to empowerment and a new perspective of life and uncertainty. We enhanced the understanding of the RUIT by developing a theoretical definition of self-organization on a lower level of abstraction and by proposing a new approximation for the operationalization by means of cognitive reframing.

The Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating (DAFNE) course teaches insulin dose adjustment to match dietary carbohydrates and improve glycaemic control in participants with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). We investigated the association between socioeconomic deprivation and reduction in HbA1c as a marker of sustained glycaemic control, after attending DAFNE education. This retrospective observational study identified adults with T1DM who attended DAFNE training in NHS Lothian, South East Scotland. We extracted age, sex, postcode-based Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation (SIMD) quintiles and annual HbA1c measurements available four years before and after course attendance. We calculated mean HbA1c before (baseline) and after attendance at DAFNE, across four annual measurements. Change in mean HbA1c (mmol/mol) was categorised into three groups: decrease (≥ - 2.5), no change (<±2.5), increase (≥ + 2.5). We used multivariable ordinal logistic regression, with baseline mean HbA1c as a covariate, to investigate the association of SIMD quintile with reduction in mean HbA1c. 335 participants were included. Age and sex distribution were similar across SIMD quintiles (Mean age = 45, range 21-91, 59% women). Lower SIMD quintiles (greater deprivation) had higher baseline mean HbA1c (SIMD 1: 76.0, SIMD 5: 69.0). Higher SIMD quintiles (lower deprivation) were associated with lower odds of no change/increase in mean HbA1c (SIMD 5, odds ratio = 0.25, 95% confidence interval 0.10, 0.58, p = 0.001, multivariable analysis). Socioeconomic deprivation was associated with higher baseline mean HbA1c and lower reduction in HbA1c following DAFNE education. Future research could explore causes and how best to support participants from deprived areas. This work has not been previously submitted to a journal. This work was presented as a poster at The ABCD Conference 2021 and the abstract (of no more than 300 words) from the meeting has been published: Innes CWD, Henshall DE, Wilson B, Poon M, Morley SD, Ritchie SA. Socioeconomic deprivation is associated with reduced efficacy of an insulin adjustment education programme for people with type 1 diabetes. Br J Diabetes. 2021; 21: 293-296.

Many of our most powerful musical experiences are shared with others, and researchers have increasingly investigated responses to music in group contexts. Though musical performances for infants are growing in popularity, most research on infants' responses to live music has focused on solitary caregiver-infant pairs. Here, we report infants' attentional, affective, and motor responses to live music as audience members. Two groups of caregiver-infant (6-18 months) pairs (50 total) watched a short musical performance with two song styles - lullaby and playsong. Caregivers were instructed to watch passively or interactively. The playsong captured more infant attention and, especially in the interactive condition, elicited more infant smiles. Notably, infant attention was more coordinated with their own caregiver than a random caregiver, and infants with no experience attending group musical events in the past were especially attentive to the performance. Infants were more likely to generate movements when parents remained still. Overall, infants' responses to live musical performance in an audience were influenced by song style, caregiver behavior, and their own musical histories. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q61qnDMW8dU. RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS: Infants' responses to live musical performances are shaped by the music, by their caregivers, and by their own musical histories During a concert for babies, a playsong more effectively elicited infant attention and smiles than a lullaby, especially when caregivers were interactive Infant attention was more coordinated with their own caregiver than with other caregivers watching the same show.

Grandparents caring for grandchildren has increased globally in the past two decades, but we have a limited understanding of its effects on custodial grandchildren's mental/behavioural health and educational outcomes. This mixed methods systematic review aims to synthesise mental/behavioural health and educational outcomes of custodial grandchildren within custodial grandparent-headed families and with comparison to other types of household structure and further examine factors associated with these outcomes. A systematic review following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines was conducted. We searched ERIC, Family Studies Abstracts, PsycINFO, PubMed, Scopus, Social Work Abstract and SocINDEX in March 2021 and screened 14,515 articles, which resulted in the inclusion of 42 studies, including 33 quantitative, seven qualitative and two mixed methods studies. The quality of included studies was assessed. This review covered 10 countries, yet most studies revealed that grandchildren raised by grandparents had adverse mental/behavioural health and educational outcomes compared to their peers raised by biological parents. This review further identified multi-level factors contributing to custodial grandchildren's adverse outcomes. Methodological limitations and implications for future practice and research were discussed.

Extensive literature addresses the correlates of communication behaviors within couples in the specific stressful context of oncology. This literature focused mainly on the concepts of disclosure, concealment, holding back and protective buffering to gain more insight into the potential benefits of open communication on the psychological and relational wellbeing of the patient, the spouse and the dyad. The current systematic review aims to present this literature, summarize research findings and suggest empirical, theoretical and clinical implications. Methods: The search method applied in this review was in line with the PRISMA guidelines. Key words related to couples' communication and oncology were used to identify relevant studies according to title and abstract fields from 1.1.2000 until 31.1.22. Results: Out of 3277 papers, a total of 55 articles were identified as relevant for this review. These quantitative studies used cross-sectional and longitudinal designs. Overall, integrating findings from different studies showed that while avoiding communication is negatively associated with psychological and relational wellbeing, the benefits of disclosure seems to be dependent on different factors including the partner's responsiveness, contextual factors and personal characteristics. The existing literature is limited in providing data regarding the nature of adequate or helpful partner responses, the best timing, and the specific topics that are recommended to be disclosed such as specific fears. Most importantly, it is limited in heterogeneity of constructs of communication that were studied, scales that were used and diverse mediators and moderators that were examined. Accordingly, an effort to reach consensus of definition and assessment of communicative behavior is recommended for future studies, and addressing responsiveness to communicative initiations seems to be important for clinical practice.

Correlation between reports of children and parent for health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is not well studied. This study aims to assess the degree of agreement between child self- and parent proxy-rated HRQOL and to identify factors associated with discordance at baseline and during follow-up in Taiwanese children with chronic kidney disease (CKD). This study includes pediatric patients aged 5-18 years with confirmed CKD. Participants completed the generic version of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) at baseline and every 6 months during follow-up. Child-parent agreement on HRQOL reports was assessed using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Multivariate regression models were used to determine factors associated with child-parent discordance. Of the 112 child-parent dyads included in the analysis, 97 dyads with 640 patient visits were assessed in 4.5 years. Children reported higher total scores on the physical and psychosocial domains as compared to their parent proxies. ICC was low (< 0.5) for the psychosocial domain and moderate for the physical health domain at initial assessment and slightly increased for the physical health (0.62) and for school functioning (0.51) during follow-up. Development of mineral bone disorder/anemia (β, 11.75 [3.77-19.72]) and proteinuria (β, 8.48 [1.15-15.81]) in the follow-up were associated with increased discordance in school functioning, and fathers with chronic disease were associated with increased discordance in social functioning (β, 4.21 [0.68-7.74]). Parent proxy consistently estimated lower PedsQL score compared to self-reports of children. Child self-rated psychosocial health domains should be evaluated whenever possible to better elucidate treatment outcome over time. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

The expanded use of data is part of healthcare transformation that is underway in most countries around the world. While transformation is good for the advancement of healthcare, it presents new challenges for health information professionals. It is critical that the privacy of individual health information be protected throughout the transformation process. In this abstract, we explore how transformation is taking place in various countries and at different stages as paper-based records are digitized, as electronic health records are adopted, and as health data is used in new data-sharing methods for population health, analytics, and patient engagement. It is imperative for all health information stakeholders to learn about emerging trends and new rules that will impact their work to protect the privacy of health information in an increasingly digital, mobile, and global world. These requirements, and more are explored in the whitepaper: Privacy of Health Information, an IFHIMA Global Perspective.

The purpose of this review is to discuss how state perinatal quality collaboratives are addressing birth equity to reduce disparities in maternal morbidity and mortality. Perinatal quality collaboratives are adopting core practices to advance birth equity, reduce disparities and confront racism and bias in obstetric care including securing leadership commitments to equity, providing education on the causes of inequities and mitigation strategies, collecting accurate race/ethnicity data, addressing social determinants of health, and integrating patient and community knowledge, experiences, and narratives in the quality improvement work. Inequities in maternal morbidity and mortality particularly affecting Black birthing people are driven by racism, inequities in the social determinants of health, and variations in care practices and quality. Perinatal quality collaboratives are an important resource for driving improvement changes to mitigate these factors and improve outcomes. Mason CL, Collier CH, Penny SC. Perinatal Quality Collaboratives and Birth Equity. Produced by CLMB Productions for use in this publication. January 10, 2022, http://links.lww.com/COAN/A86.

A renewed focus on U.S. racial and ethnic maternal health disparities has arisen following high-profile incidents of police violence and antiracism protests which coincided with the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, which has exerted a disproportionate effect on minority communities. Understanding the causes of disparities is pivotal for developing solutions. Social determinants of health must be addressed during clinical care; however, race must be used with caution in clinical decision-making. Medicaid expansion has been associated with a decrease in severe maternal morbidity and mortality, especially for racial and ethnic minority women. Indirect obstetric causes are the leading cause of maternal death. Policy-level changes and investment in marginalized communities are required to improve access to quality maternity care at all stages, including preconception, interconception, prenatal, intrapartum and postpartum for 12 months after delivery. Improvements in hospital quality and implementation of evidence-based bundles of care are crucial. Clinicians should receive training regarding susceptibility to implicit bias. To support the research agenda, better collection of race and ethnicity data and anesthesia care indicators is a priority (see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1 {Video abstract that provides an overview of the causes racial and ethnic disparities in maternal health outcomes.} http://links.lww.com/COAN/A85).

This article maps the rise and fall of the idea of a (social) group across medicine in the context of contemporary analyses in psychology and sociology. This history shows the early 20th century emergence and growth of group medicine, group therapy and group comparisons. In recent decades, however, the idea that groups constituted the basic units of society has been replaced with the emergence of populations and systems that offer a more virtual and abstract context for individual relationships. This has implications for explanation itself as the demise of groups has changed the epistemological ground-rules for understanding identity formation and social change.

Emergency ambulance clinicians attend a wide range of prehospital emergencies, including out-of-hospital births (OOHBs). Intrapartum care comprises approximately 0.05% of emergency medical services' caseload, with only ~10% of intrapartum cases progressing to birth in emergency ambulance clinician care. However, this low exposure rate potentially allows obstetric clinical skills and knowledge to decay, which may impact on patient care. Additionally, unplanned OOHBs are known to have a higher incidence of complications and adverse outcomes than their counterparts born in hospital, such as postpartum haemorrhage or hypothermia. This scoping review will explore OOHBs and associated complications in emergency ambulance clinician care, investigate birth parent, significant partner and clinician experiences regarding OOHBs, and consider barriers and challenges to optimal patient care, to identify future research opportunities and associated knowledge gaps for this patient cohort. This scoping review will follow the nine-step methodological framework suggested by the Joanna Briggs Institute and use the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews. Five electronic databases (MEDLINE via EBSCO, CINAHL, Embase, Web of Science and Wiley Online) will be searched to identify articles for inclusion. The 'participant, concept, context' criteria will be used to identify suitable search words regarding OOHBs in emergency ambulance clinician care. The review will include peer-reviewed and preprint literature. Two reviewers will independently assess articles based on title and abstract for inclusion in the review. Data will be charted using a data extraction tool for consistency and provide a succinct descriptive summary of the results. This study does not require ethical review as all the information obtained will come from publicly available resources. Results will be disseminated via a peer-reviewed publication. This scoping review is preregistered with the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/ta35q).

Lung cancer has the second-ranked morbidity rate and the first-ranked mortality rate worldwide. With the progression of the cancer condition and the advancement of new treatments, the corresponding medical expenses have risen sharply. Nowadays, financial toxicity has become one of the most common concerns in patients with cancer. However, by far, the full landscape of studies on financial toxicity is unclear in patients with lung cancer. Thus, this scoping review aims to summarise the degree, affecting factors, outcomes and intervention strategies of financial toxicity in patients with lung cancer. This scoping review will be developed following the methodology described in the Joanna Briggs Institute Manual for Evidence Synthesis on scoping review protocol, which was based on Arksey and O'Malley's methodological framework, Levac  An ethical approval is not required for this scoping review protocol, nor for the scoping review. The results of this scoping review will be disseminated through publication in a peer-reviewed journal or presentation at conferences. This scoping review protocol has been registered in the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/ub45n/?view_only=bb93eb94e1434a0f8196b3b61cffcec2).

There are gaps in understanding longitudinal patterns and predictors of perinatal depressive symptoms in sub-Saharan Africa. This study aimed to explore trajectories of depressive symptoms and associated factors from pregnancy to 9 months post partum among Kenyan women. In this prospective cohort study, we analysed data from the PrEP Implementation for Mothers in Antenatal Care (PrIMA) study in which HIV-negative women were enrolled in pregnancy and followed up to 9 months post partum in 20 public sector maternal-child health clinics in western Kenya. Pregnant women were eligible for enrolment if they were not infected with HIV, aged 15 years or older, and were able to provide consent. Eligible participants were screened and enrolled between Jan 15, 2018, and July 31, 2019, and followed up to 9 months post partum, with the last participant study visit conducted on Jan 15, 2021. Study nurses serially assessed depressive symptoms using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CESD-10), intimate partner violence with the Hurt, Insult, Threaten, Scream scale, and social support with the Medical Outcomes Study scale. Generalised estimating equations were used to identify correlates of moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms (CESD-10 score ≥10) and group-based trajectory modelling identified discrete trajectories of perinatal depressive symptoms. Among 4447 participants in the main PrIMA study, 3555 had complete depressive symptom data in pregnancy and depressive symptom data post partum and were included in the primary analysis. Median age was 24·0 years (IQR 21·0-28·7), 1330 (38%) participants had low social support, and 278 (8%) reported intimate partner violence in pregnancy. All participants (100%) were female and all (100%) were of African Kenyan ethnicity. Prevalence of moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms was higher in pregnancy than post partum (870 [24·5%; 95% CI 23·1-25·9] vs 597 [6·8%; 15·6-18·1]; p<0·0001). Five patterns of depressive symptoms were identified; persistent moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms in pregnancy and post partum (295 [8·3%]), moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms in pregnancy that resolved post partum (139 [3·9%]), moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms that emerged post partum (40 [1·1%]), chronically mild symptoms (2709 [76·2%]), and no depressive symptoms (372 [10·5%]). Emergent moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were associated with older age. Emergent, persistent, and resolving moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were associated with intimate partner violence during pregnancy; and persistent and resolving moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were associated with low social support and high HIV risk (all p<0·05). Moderate-to-severe depressive symptom risk was significantly increased with intimate partner violence (adjusted odds ratio 2·07 [95% CI 1·81-2·31]; p<0·0001), low social support (1·74 [1·56-1·95]; p<0·0001), and partner HIV-positive status (1·48 [1·22-1·78]; p<0·0001). 23·34% (95% CI 18·77-27·65) of cases of perinatal moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms were attributable to low social support. One third of women had perinatal moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms; nearly half of these had higher severity phenotypes of resolving, persistent, and emerging moderate-to-severe depressive symptoms that might require tailored interventions. Perinatal women with comorbid psychosocial stressors such as intimate partner violence and previous pregnancy loss should be prioritised for mental health services that augment social support within routine maternal-child health care. National Institutes of Health. For the Kiswahili translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Due to the competitive relationship among different smart factories, equipment manufacturers cannot integrate the private information of all smart factories to train the intelligent manufacturing equipment fault prediction model and improve the accuracy of intelligent manufacturing equipment fault detection. The use of a low fault recognition rate model for smart factories will cause additional losses for them. In this work, we propose a blockchain-based privacy information security sharing scheme in Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) to solve the sharing problem of private information in smart factories. Firstly, we abstract smart factories as edge nodes and build decentralized, distributed trusted blockchain networks based on Ethereum clients on simulated edge devices and propose an Intelligent Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (IECDSA) to guarantee the ownership of shared information by edge nodes. Secondly, we propose the Reputation-based Delegated Proof of Stake (RDPoS) consensus algorithm to improve the security and reliability of the Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) consensus algorithm. Furthermore, we design and implement an incentive mechanism based on information attributes to increase the motivation of edge nodes to share information. Finally, the proposed solution is simulated. Through theoretical and simulation experiments, it is proved that the blockchain-based privacy information security sharing scheme in IIoT can improve the enthusiasm of edge nodes to share information on the premise of ensuring the security of information sharing.

Black infants in the United States have the highest incidence of both infant mortality (IM) and preterm birth among all racial/ethnic groups. The IM disparity for Black preterm infants often occurs after neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) discharge, when parents become the primary caregivers. The revised Kenner Transition Model (KTM) is situation specific and comprised 5 interrelated domains of parental need after NICU discharge that have not been previously applied to the transition from NICU to home of Black infants. This study's purpose was to explore the conceptual fit of parental readiness to care for their Black preterm infants after NICU discharge with the revised KTM. A qualitative descriptive research approach was used for this single-site study of NICU parents of Black preterm infants. Qualitative analysis of 10 parents' perceptions before NICU discharge was via semantic content analysis; data were organized into categories aligned with the KTM. The Transition Questionnaire (TQ), an adjunct to the KTM, provided self- report quantitative data. All parents endorsed the "Information Needs," "Stress and Coping," and "Professional Support" domains of the KTM. Parent TQ responses indicated perceptions of moderate to high levels of home transition readiness after NICU discharge. The domains of the revised KTM were affirmed by parents of Black preterm infants in this study via coded interview and TQ responses. Additional study exploring the clinical assessment of transition readiness with theoretical grounding in diverse NICU families is warranted. https://journals.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/Pages/videogallery.aspx .

Black mothers and their very low birth-weight infants in the United States have increased risk of adverse neonatal and maternal health outcomes compared with White mothers and infants. Disparities in adverse birth outcomes associated with sociodemographic factors are difficult to quantify and modify, limiting their usefulness in assessing intervention effects. To test hypotheses that (1) the biological factors of maternal testosterone and cortisol are associated with sociodemographic factors and (2) both factors are associated with neonatal health and maternal mental health and healthy behaviors between birth and 40 weeks' gestational age. We used a descriptive, longitudinal design. Eighty-eight mothers and very low birth-weight neonates were recruited from a tertiary medical center in the United States. Data on sociodemographic factors and neonatal health were collected from medical records. Maternal mental health and healthy behaviors were collected with questionnaires. Maternal salivary testosterone and cortisol levels were measured using enzyme immunoassays. Data were analyzed primarily using general linear and mixed models. High testosterone and/or low cortisol levels were associated with younger age, less education, enrollment in a federal assistance program, being unmarried, being Black, poorer neonatal health, and delayed physical growth. Low cortisol level was related to higher levels of depressive symptoms. Black mothers had fewer healthy behaviors than White mothers. Findings confirm that biological factors are associated with sociodemographic factors, and both are associated with neonatal health and maternal mental health and healthy behaviors. We propose using sociodemographic and biological factors concurrently to identify risk and develop and evaluate ante- and postpartum interventions.Video abstract available athttps://journals.na.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/Pages/videogallery.aspx?autoPlay=false&videoId=59.

Reports an error in "Recovering from intimate partner violence through Strengths and Empowerment (RISE): Development, pilot testing, and refinement of a patient-centered brief counseling intervention for women" by Katherine M. Iverson, Sara B. Danitz, Mary Driscoll, Dawne Vogt, Alison B. Hamilton, Megan R. Gerber, Shannon Wiltsey Stirman, Danielle R. Shayani, Michael K. Suvak and Melissa E. Dichter (

Honors granted by the German Society for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy (DGKJP) and its predecessors 

Long-term Huntington's disease (HD) care is offered in specialized inpatient nursing home units with a focus on individually perceived quality of life (QoL). This is shaped in daily care and interaction, which is often abstract and intangible. Furthermore, different perspectives are involved and may vary. To explore and describe perceived QoL of HD patients from three perspectives: manifest HD patients, family members, and nursing staff. 36 patients, 11 family members, and 30 nurses participated in this qualitative study by means of individual interviews and systematic qualitative observations on three units. Preservation of identity and autonomy is important for patients. Patients struggle with increasing dependence, and try to cope with the impact, uncertainty, and progressive nature of the disease. All participants emphasize the focus on "being human, not just a patient". Both patients and family members mention the difficulty of dealing with altered behavior and loss of control. Patients are reliant on a relational approach, and an attitude of unconditional acceptance, trust, and understanding support by the nurses. Nursing staff help patients to focus on preserved abilities, and to continue to engage in personalized preferred social activities. Specific qualifications of the nurses were of major influence on QoL for HD patients. This study shows, from the patient as well as family member and nursing staff perspectives, that caring for HD patients requires specific knowledge and skills. Particular nursing approaches and attitude and qualifications of the nursing staff in residential HD care improves the perceived QoL of patients.

Surveillance data are used for public health action, but the practice of analyzing data by single demographic characteristics may produce findings that reflect abstract categories rather than a person's lived experience. Intersectionality is a theoretical framework that advocates for individuals to be recognized as the whole of their identity and within context of power structures. Using the national Youth Risk Behavior Survey 2015-2019, we examined 5-year trends in experiencing violence, poor mental health, and suicidal risk behavior among US high school students using intersections of race/ethnicity and sex. We used SUDAAN to calculate prevalence estimates and logistic regression models to assess for linear trends while accounting for the weighting and complex survey design. Among all students in aggregate, experiencing dating violence decreased while being threatened with a weapon at school and feeling persistently sad or hopeless increased over time; however, these trends did not apply to most students when stratified by identity. The one near-universal experience was that students in aggregate and almost all identities had an increased trend of skipping school because they felt unsafe there. By focusing on identities defined by two main drivers of health disparities-race/ethnicity and sex-we found that changes in risk behaviors did not occur equally among students and that prevalence estimates were highest among Black males, Black females, and Hispanic females. We outlined the power structures that frame the current educational environment. Patterns of health disparities can be highlighted by analyzing surveillance data through an intersectional lens.

Insecticide-treated net (ITN) is a cost-effective means to control malaria and morbidity in under-five children. This study synthesizes the factors associated with using the ITN as a malaria prevention tool in sub-Saharan Africa. There was an advanced search of four electronic databases, including PubMed Central, CINAHL, EMBASE, and Google Scholar, and identified articles between 2016 to April 2021. Following the title, abstract and full-text reading, 13 articles were deemed appropriate for this review. All the researchers developed, discussed, and accepted a matrix to extract relevant information from the studies. A convergent synthesis was adopted and allowed for integrating qualitative, quantitative, and mixed-method studies and transforming them into qualitative findings. Household and caregiver related factors that influenced utilization of the ITN were, Household heads having two or more sleeping places, a knowledge that ITN prevents malaria, the presence of hanging ITNs, high literacy, living female-headed households, birth spacing, unmarried mothers, and antenatal clinic attendance promoted utilization. Perceived malaria risk was a critical determinant of ITN ownership and utilization. Some factors that hindered the use of the ITN included hotness of the weather, absence of visible mosquitoes, cost, inadequate number, rooms designs, unaffordability, insufficient knowledge on causes of malaria, and poor attitude to use. Specific ITN factors that hindered use were color, chemicals use, odor, and shape. It is important to use integrated multi-sectoral and culturally appropriate interventions to encourage households to prioritize and utilize the ITN in under-5 children.

Although many factors have been associated with mobility among older adults, there is paucity of research that explores the complexity of factors that influence mobility. This review aims to synthesise the available evidence for factors comprising the cognitive, psychological, and social mobility determinants and their associations with mobility self-reported and performance-based outcomes in older adults (60 years). We followed Arksey and O'Malley's five stages of a scoping review and searched PubMed, EMBASE, PsychINFO, Web of Science, AgeLine, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature and Sociological Abstract databases. Reviewers in pairs independently conducted title, abstract, full-text screening and data extraction. We reported associations by analyses rather than articles because articles reported multiple associations for factors and several mobility outcomes. Associations were categorised as significantly positive, negative, or not significant. We included 183 peer-reviewed articles published in 27 countries, most of which were cross-sectional studies and conducted among community-dwelling older adults. The 183 articles reported 630 analyses, of which 381 (60.5%) were significantly associated with mobility outcomes in the expected direction. For example, older adults with higher cognitive functioning such as better executive functioning had better mobility outcomes (e.g., faster gait speed), and those with poor psychological outcomes, such as depressive symptoms, or social outcomes such as reduced social network, had poorer mobility outcomes (e.g., slower gait speed) compared to their counterparts. Studies exploring the association between cognitive factors, personality (a psychological factor) and self-reported mobility outcomes (e.g., walking for transportation or driving), and social factors and performance-based mobility outcomes in older adults are limited. Understanding the additive relationships between cognitive, psychological, and social factors highlights the complexity of older adults' mobility across different forms of mobility, including independence, use of assistive devices, transportation, and driving.

Children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and their families deal with challenging circumstances. While numerous studies have shown that both patients and parents in these families can experience a variety of challenges and concerns, the experience of siblings is less well understood. The focus of this scoping review was on research addressing the experiences and well-being of siblings of children with CKD. Following scoping review methodology, five databases were searched for peer-reviewed research or graduate theses published in English that addressed the experience or well-being of siblings aged 25 years or younger (biological, step or foster) of children with CKD; studies from any year or location were included. Two independent coders identified relevant studies. Findings were summarized and synthesized. Of the 2990 studies identified, 19 were chosen for full text review and eight fit the inclusion criteria. Five of the selected studies were qualitative, two were quantitative and one used mixed-methods. Four broad themes across studies were identified including family functioning, significant relationships, psychological well-being, and coping strategies. While there was some convergence between qualitative and quantitative findings, these linkages were weak. Several unmet needs of siblings were uncovered by this review. Sibling perceptions of differential parental treatment and desire for information about CKD emerged as priorities for practice. Using a strength-based approach in order to better understand sibling experiences and well-being was also recommended for future research. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Legislation dictating federal healthcare policy is drafted largely by members of the US Senate and House of Representatives. As such, their personal and professional backgrounds play important roles in setting the national healthcare agenda. We examine the professional and legislative records of the 28 federal physician legislators with voting privileges between 2011 and 2020. Two researchers compiled the names of every federal legislator in both the US Senate and the US House of Representatives who served at any time between 2011 and 2020. The researchers used publicly available records to abstract information regarding their professional and legislative records. Data were then analyzed using descriptive statistics. The majority of the 28 federal physician legislators are Doctor of Medicine graduates (96%), Republican (86%), represent southern states (71%), were in private practice before serving as legislators (78.5%), and have not previously held elected positions as legislators (57%). Approximately 15% of the bills that they sponsor are related to health policy. Obstetrics/Gynecology, Surgery, and Family Medicine are the most common specialties. On average, it takes 25 years from medical school graduation to election to their federal legislative position. Approximately half represent states, or districts within states, in which they attended medical school or completed residency. To engage in meaningful healthcare policy advocacy, professional organizations must support and encourage leadership training for physicians, increase the geographic and professional diversity of physician legislators, prioritize the election of physicians from both political parties, and inculcate deep and lasting professional relationships to physicians in Congress.

Middle childhood is a critical period for physical, social, behavioral, and cognitive changes. A positive and healthy sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) foundation can minimize SRHR risks, leading to better outcomes. Our objective is to identify effective educational interventions promoting or supporting the SRHR of school-age children in low and middle-income countries. Medline, Embase, CINAHL, APA PsycInfo, ERIC, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Education Source, Web of Science, SciELO Citation Index, Global Health, and Sociological Abstract were searched from 2000 to December 2020. Eligible articles had a sample mean age between 5 and 10 years, quantitatively tested the effects of educational interventions against a comparison group, and measured SRHR related outcomes. Data extracted from the 11 eligible articles were study methods, participant characteristics, interventions and comparisons, outcome measures, and results. The review found evidence of significant intervention effects on protective knowledge, attitudes, behaviors, and skills for preventing sexual violence and HIV infection. The strongest evidence was for significant improvements in children's knowledge of child sexual abuse prevention concepts and strategies. A meta-analysis could not be performed because most studies lacked randomization, included no information on the magnitude of effects, and had inadequate follow-up evaluations to truly assess retention. Only a few studies contributed to findings on protective attitudes, behaviors, and skills against child sexual abuse, gender-based violence, and human immunodeficiency virus infection, as well as physiologic outcome. The educational interventions demonstrated significant improvements in primary school children's protective capacities, especially in their protective knowledge against sexual abuse.

Non-smoker protection and tobacco cessation 

The objective of this study was to (1) qualitatively identify the perceived determinants of physical activity among women who have experienced severe preeclampsia, and (2) examine whether these determinants are consistent with the overarching processes outlined in the integrated behavior change (IBC) model, a novel model that describes physical activity as being a result of motivational, volitional, and automatic processes. Patients (n = 35) of the Follow-Up PreEClampsia (FUPEC) Outpatient Clinic, Erasmus MC, the Netherlands, participated in an anonymous online survey. The main outcomes under study were their perceived determinants of physical activity. Responses were analyzed using thematic analysis. Thirteen themes emerged from the analysis. Six themes corresponded with motivational processes (future health, perceived ability, attitude, future reward or regret, physical appearance, and doing it for others), two with volitional processes (scheduling and planning), and two with automatic processes (affect and stress). Three themes were classified as environmental factors (time constraint, social support, and physical environment). A range of facilitating and hindering factors were described by women with prior severe preeclampsia as the determinants of their physical activity. These factors corresponded well with the overarching motivational, volitional, and automatic processes described in the IBC model. In addition, motivational and environmental factors beyond the IBC model were described. Addressing these perceived determinants could enhance the efficacy of physical activity interventions in this population. Motivational, volitional, automatic, and environmental factors drive physical activity in women with prior severe preeclampsia.

Interdisciplinary and Psychiatric Treatment of Anabolic Androgenic Steroids Users 

Children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) generally have worse educational and psychosocial outcomes compared with their healthy peers. This can impair their ability to manage their treatment, which in turn can have long-term health consequences through to adulthood. We attempted to capture the experiences of children with CKD and to describe the perspectives of their parents and caregivers on access to educational and psychosocial support. Children with CKD (n = 34) and their caregivers (n = 62) were sampled via focus groups from pediatric hospitals in Australia, Canada, and the USA. Sixteen focus groups were convened and the transcripts were analyzed thematically. We identified four themes: disruption to self-esteem and identity (emotional turmoil of adolescence, wrestling with the sick self, powerlessness to alleviate child's suffering, balancing normality and protection); disadvantaged by lack of empathy and acceptance (alienated by ignorance, bearing the burden alone); a hidden and inaccessible support system (excluded from formal psychological support, falling behind due to being denied special considerations); and building resilience (finding partners in the journey, moving towards acceptance of the illness, re-establishing childhood). Children with CKD and their caregivers encountered many barriers in accessing psychosocial and educational support and felt extremely disempowered and isolated as a consequence. Improved availability and access to psychosocial and educational interventions are needed to improve the wellbeing and educational advancement of children with CKD. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Physical and mental illnesses are driven by ethnicity, social, environmental and economic determinants. Novel theoretical frameworks in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) focus on links and adverse interactions between and within biological and social factors. This review aimed to summarise associations between socioeconomic status (SES) and RA disease activity, and implications for future research. Articles studying the association between SES and RA disease activity were identified, from 1946 until March 2021. The research question was: Is there an association between social deprivation and disease activity in people with RA? Articles meeting inclusion criteria were examined by one author, with 10% screened at abstract and full paper stage by a second author. Disagreements were resolved with input from a third reviewer. Information was extracted on definition/measure of SES, ethnicity, education, employment, comorbidities, disease activity and presence/absence of association between SES and disease activity. Initially, 1750 articles were identified, with 30 articles ultimately included. SES definition varied markedly-10 articles used a formal scale and most used educational attainment as a proxy. Most studies controlled for lifestyle factors including smoking and body mass index, and comorbidities. Twenty-five articles concluded an association between SES and RA disease activity; two were unclear; three found no association. We have demonstrated the association between low SES and worse RA outcomes. There is a need for further research into the mechanisms underpinning this, including application of mixed-methods methodology and consideration of syndemic frameworks to understand bio-bio and bio-social interactions, to examine disease drivers and outcomes holistically.

Engaging patients, carers and members of the public in health research has become widely recognised as an important approach for bridging the gap between research, and health and social care by increasing the relevance of research for those who benefit from its findings. Specific approaches to engagement vary, but commonly include advisory boards, groups or patient panels that are active throughout all stages of research. The breadth of and optimal strategies for recruiting patients, carers and members of the public to such boards, groups or panels remains unclear. The objective of this manuscript is to identify the breadth of and optimal strategies used to recruit patients, carers and members of the public to advisory boards, groups or panels, within public and patient involvement (PPI) research. This review follows the scoping review framework by Peters  Ethics is not required for this review. We aim to disseminate the information gathered through presentations at academic conferences, peer-reviewed publications and consultations with lay audiences.

Research in developmental psychology has robustly documented positive associations between parent-child attachment security and the child's self-regulation (SR). This study of 102 community mothers, fathers, and infants contributes to that research by examining the role of attachment security, observed at 15 months using the Attachment Q-Set, as a predictor of two distinct aspects of self-regulation at 67 months: executive functioning (SR-EF), observed in abstract Stroop-like tasks (Day/Night & Snow/Grass and Tapping), and parent-related (SR-PR), observed within the context of the parent-child relationship in response to the mother's (SR-MR) and father's (SR-FR) requests and prohibitions. We also examined child anger proneness, observed at 7 months, as a moderator of those associations. In both mother-child and father-child dyads, child security predicted SR-EF; More secure children performed better in executive functioning tasks. In mother-child dyads, security also predicted SR-MR, but the effect was qualified by the interaction of security and anger proneness, such that the effect was significant only for highly anger-prone children. The effect reflected differential susceptibility: Compared with lower-anger peers, highly anger-prone children developed worse SR-MR if their security was low, but they developed better SR-MR if their security was high. The findings highlight the benefits of a nuanced approach to self-regulation, considering child individuality as interacting with security and examining processes in both mother-child and father-child dyads.

Uncontrolled confounding from maternal depression and genetic and environmental factors is expected in studies investigating the effect of prenatal antidepressant exposure on the risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in childhood and may explain inconsistencies in the existing evidence. We aimed to assess this effect using triangulation. Using population-based health registries, we conducted a nationwide cohort study of all children born in Denmark between 1997 and 2017 and followed through 2018 for ADHD. We assessed the effect of prenatal antidepressant exposure on the risk of ADHD in childhood by comparing children with and without prenatal antidepressant exposure in terms of adjusted incidence rate ratios (IRRs), adjusted incidence rate differences (IRDs), and adjusted risk differences (RDs) and the associated 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We triangulated results from four different analytic approaches: an overall analysis, a negative control analysis, a sibling analysis, and a former-user analysis. The overall study cohort consisted of 1,253,362 children, among whom 28,910 (2.3%) had prenatal antidepressant exposure. ADHD during follow-up was diagnosed among 1,411 (4.9%) of the exposed and in 37,196 (3.0%) of the unexposed children. Triangulation suggested an IRR of 1.09-1.15; an IRD less than 1 case/1,000 person-years, and an RD of 0.9%-2.2% over an up to 18-year period. Based on triangulation, we estimated a modest effect of prenatal antidepressant exposure on the risk of ADHD in childhood. However, considering the limitations of our approaches, this observed association may be partially due to residual biases. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B935.

Bicycling is an important form of physical activity in populations. Research assessing the effect of infrastructure on bicycling with high-resolution smartphone data is emerging in several places, but it remains limited in low-bicycling US settings, including the Southeastern US. The Atlanta area has been expanding its bicycle infrastructure, including off-street paved trails such as the Atlanta BeltLine and some protected bike lanes. Using the generalized synthetic-control method, we estimated effects of five groups of off-street paved trails and protected bike lanes on bicycle ridership in their corresponding areas. To measure bicycling, we used 2 years (October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2018) of monthly Strava data in Atlanta's urban core along with data from 15 on-the-ground counters to adjust for spatiotemporal variation in app use. Considering all infrastructure as one joint intervention, an estimated 1.10 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.99, 1.18) times more bicycle-distance was ridden than would have been expected in the same areas had the infrastructure not been built, when defining treatment areas by the narrower of two definitions (defined in text). The Atlanta BeltLine Westside Trail and Proctor Creek Greenway had especially strong effect estimates, e.g., ratios of 1.45 (95% CI: 1.12, 1.86) and 1.55 (1.10, 2.14) under each treatment-area definition, respectively. We estimated that other infrastructure had weaker positive or no effects on bicycle-distance ridden. This study advances research on the topic because of its setting in the US Southeast, simultaneous assessment of several infrastructure groups, and data-driven approach to estimating effects. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B936.

We studied discordance between health literacy of people with rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases (RMDs) and assessment of health literacy by their treating health professionals, and explored whether discordance is associated with the patients' socioeconomic background. Patients with RA, spondyloarthritis (SpA) or gout from three Dutch outpatient rheumatology clinics completed the nine-domain Health Literacy Questionnaire (HLQ). Treating health professionals assessed their patients on each HLQ domain. Discordance per domain was defined as a ≥2-point difference on a 0-10 scale (except if both scores were below three or above seven), leading to three categories: 'negative discordance' (i.e. professional scored lower), 'probably the same' or 'positive discordance' (i.e. professional scored higher). We used multivariable multilevel multinomial regression models with patients clustered by health professionals to test associations with socioeconomic factors (age, gender, education level, migration background, employment, disability for work, living alone). We observed considerable discordance (21-40% of patients) across HLQ domains. Most discordance occurred for 'Critically appraising information' (40.5%, domain 5). Comparatively, positive discordance occurred more frequently. Negative discordance was more frequently and strongly associated with socioeconomic factors, specifically lower education level and non-Western migration background (for five HLQ domains). Associations between socioeconomic factors and positive discordance were less consistent. Frequent discordance between patients' scores and professionals' estimations indicates there may be hidden challenges in communication and care, which differ between socioeconomic groups. Successfully addressing patients' health literacy needs cannot solely depend on health professionals' estimations but will require measurement and dialogue. A video abstract of this article can be found at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ggnB1rATdQ4.

Early exclusive birth/lactating parent's own milk (B/LPOM) feeds have been associated with longer duration of B/LPOM use for infant feedings in healthy term and hospitalized preterm infants. This relationship has not been explored in infants undergoing neonatal surgery (surgical infants). To evaluate the relationship between early exclusive B/LPOM feeds and cumulative B/LPOM patterns during surgical infants' neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) hospitalization. A secondary cross-sectional analysis was performed using the electronic health record data of surgical infants admitted to a level IV NICU between January 2014 and March 2015. Multiple linear regression and Fisher's exact test were used to examine the associations between first NICU feed type and total percentage of diet composed of B/LPOM during NICU stay and continuation of any or exclusive B/LPOM feedings at NICU discharge, respectively. The analysis included 59 infants who required surgery for gastrointestinal, cardiac, or multisystem defects or pregnancy-related complications. Receipt of B/LPOM as the first NICU feed was associated with higher percentage of B/LPOM feeds ( P < .001) throughout NICU stay, as well as continuation of any or exclusive B/LPOM feedings at NICU discharge ( P = .03). Early exclusive B/LPOM feeds may be an important predictor for continuation of any B/LPOM use throughout the NICU stay and at NICU discharge. Continued efforts to identify and address gaps in prenatal and postpartum lactation support for parents of surgical infants are needed. Powered studies are needed to corroborate these findings and to explore the potential impact of other factors on duration and exclusivity of B/LPOM use. https://journals.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/Pages/videogallery.aspx .

Disease and disability from alcohol use disproportionately impact people in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). While varied interventions have been shown to reduce alcohol use in high-income countries, their efficacy in LMICs has not been assessed. This systematic review describes current published literature on patient-level alcohol interventions in LMICs and specifically describes clinical trials evaluating interventions to reduce alcohol use in LMICs. In accordance with PRISMA, we performed a systematic review using an electronic search strategy from January 1, 1995 to December 1, 2020. Title, abstract, as well as full-text screening and extraction were performed in duplicate. A meta-summary was performed on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated alcohol-related outcomes. We searched the following electronic databases: PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus, Web of Science, Cochrane, WHO Global Health Library, and PsycINFO. Articles that evaluated patient-level interventions targeting alcohol use and alcohol-related harm in LMICs were eligible for inclusion. No studies were excluded based on language. After screening 5,036 articles, 117 articles fit our inclusion criteria, 75 of which were RCTs. Of these RCTs, 93% were performed in 13 middle-income countries, while 7% were from 2 low-income countries. These RCTs evaluated brief interventions (24, defined as any intervention ranging from advice to counseling, lasting less than 1 hour per session up to 4 sessions), psychotherapy or counseling (15, defined as an interaction with a counselor longer than a brief intervention or that included a psychotherapeutic component), health promotion and education (20, defined as an intervention encouraged individuals' agency of taking care of their health), or biologic treatments (19, defined as interventions where the biological function of alcohol use disorder (AUD) as the main nexus of intervention) with 3 mixing categories of intervention types. Due to high heterogeneity of intervention types, outcome measures, and follow-up times, we did not conduct meta-analysis to compare and contrast studies, but created a meta-summary of all 75 RCT studies. The most commonly evaluated intervention with the most consistent positive effect was a brief intervention; similarly, motivational interviewing (MI) techniques were most commonly utilized among the diverse array of interventions evaluated. Our review demonstrated numerous patient-level interventions that have the potential to be effective in LMICs, but further research to standardize interventions, populations, and outcome measures is necessary to accurately assess their effectiveness. Brief interventions and MI techniques were the most commonly evaluated and had the most consistent positive effect on alcohol-related outcomes. Protocol Registry: PROSPERO CRD42017055549.

Child abuse is an important public health problem as it negatively affects the child's development as well as the child's family and therefore society. Nurses are one of the most important members of the team caring for child abuse victims and are indispensable in terms of child and family education. The research was carried out to determine the perceptions of third and fourth year nursing students, who took the Child Health and Diseases Nursing course, about child abuse through metaphor. The research was carried out with the metaphor analysis technique based on the phenomenological method. "Metaphor analysis" is a technique based on the phenomenological research method within the qualitative research methods. The study was conducted at a state university in Turkey. While the population of the research consisted of nursing department students in a facility, the sample consisted of third and fourth year nursing students who took the Child Health and Diseases Nursing Course. In the study in which 186 nursing students volunteered to participate, the study was completed with 174 students, since the answers of 12 students did not contain metaphors. 174 students who took the course participated in the research. The data were collected using the Student Information Form and the metaphor sentence "Child abuse is like … because…" questioning the perceptions of child abuse from June to August 2021. At the time of the research, it was determined that all third and fourth year nursing students who took the Child Health and Diseases Nursing course in the institution had negative metaphors about "child abuse". The harm caused by child abuse to the child and the future has often been compared to natural disasters and catastrophes. Metaphors produced for the perception of "Child Abuse"; it is grouped under a total of five categories: Disaster, Damage, Never Beginning, Never Been Like Before, and Hunting. Child abuse is a medical, pediatric and public health problem that must be reported. Nursing students' perceptions of the subject are very important, as it is among the duties, responsibilities and roles of nurses. The fact that child abuse is perceived by student nurses as the strong hurting the weak, the irreversible harm, or the fact that something good ends before it begins, reveals the importance of the situation. It clearly reflects the necessity of a course on child abuse in the nursing curriculum. It is important to evaluate the perceptions of child abuse of nursing undergraduate students. @dilek_fatos.

Adversity-exposed youth tend to score lower on cognitive tests. However, the hidden talents approach proposes some abilities are enhanced by adversity, especially under ecologically relevant conditions. Two versions of an attention-shifting and working memory updating task-one abstract, one ecological-were administered to 618 youth (M

Nature provides an array of health benefits, and recent decades have seen a resurgence in nature-based interventions (NBI). While NBI have shown promise in addressing health needs, the wide variety of intervention approaches create difficulty in understanding the efficacy of NBI as a whole. This scoping review will (1) identify the different nomenclature used to define NBI, (2) describe the interventions used and the contexts in which they occurred and (3) describe the methodologies and measurement tools used in NBI studies. Following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocols Extension for Scoping Reviews, four databases will be searched (PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global) as well as cross-referencing for published and unpublished (masters theses and dissertations) studies on NBI in humans. Eligible studies must employ intervention or observational designs, and an English-language abstract will be required. Database searches will occur from inception up to the date of the search. Animal-based therapies and virtual-reality therapies involving simulated nature will be excluded. Independent dual screening and data abstraction will be conducted. Results will be analysed qualitatively as well as with simple descriptive statistics (frequencies and percentages). Since this is a scoping review of previously published summary data, ethical approval for this study is not needed. Findings will be published in a peer-reviewed journal. This protocol has been registered with Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/mtzc8).

The potential benefits of supportive interactions on social networking sites on adolescents' mental health are promising; however, no systematic evaluation has been conducted on this topic. This review examined empirical research on the relationship between social support derived from social networking sites and adolescents' mental health both theoretically and empirically. Followed PRISMA guidelines, we conducted a systematic literature search on six English and three Chinese databases in February 2020. Four thousand one hundred and seventy-seven articles were screened first by title, then abstract, and lastly, full articles. Fourteen studies (five English and nine Chinese) were identified, with total sample of 11,616 adolescents (age: 10-19 years; females: 42.7%-56.3%). Meta-analysis showed that the correlation of online social support with self-esteem was moderate and significant (r = .29), but with depression was small and insignificant (r = -.09). Sensitivity analysis indicated that social support from acquaintances on the internet may not be as beneficial as from real-life acquaintances. Despite that there isn't enough research on other specific mental health outcomes to run a quantitative synthesis, individual studies suggest that online social support (OSS) may be associated with increased self-identity and life satisfaction, decreased loneliness and social anxiety, it also counteracts the negative effect of stress and cyberbullying on mental health. OSS might be beneficial for adolescents' mental health, especially self-esteem, although the causal relationship requires longitudinal studies to confirm, and the underlying mechanisms need further investigation.

Despite the known benefits of physical activity (PA) to physical and mental health, many people fail to achieve recommended PA levels. Parents are less active than non-parent contemporaries and constitute a large potential intervention population. However, little is known about the breadth and scope of parental PA research. This scoping review therefore aimed to provide an overview of the current evidence base on parental PA. Four databases (MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and Scopus) were systematically searched to identify peer-reviewed articles focusing on parental PA from 2005 onwards, including interventional, observational or qualitative study designs. Title and abstract screening was followed by duplicate full-text screening. Data extracted for all articles (100% checked by a second reviewer) included study design, proportion of fathers and ages of children. For interventional/observational studies, PA assessment method and factors examined or targeted based on the socio-ecological model were extracted, and questions addressed in qualitative studies. Of 14 913 unique records retrieved, 213 articles were included; 27 articles reported on more than one study design; 173 articles reported on quantitative (81 cross-sectional, 26 longitudinal and 76 interventional) and 58 on qualitative data. Most articles originated from North America (62%), and 53% included only mothers, while 2% included only fathers. Articles most frequently represented parents of infants (56% of articles), toddlers (43%), preschoolers (50%) and primary-school aged children (49%). Most quantitative articles only reported self-reported PA (70%). Observational articles focused on individual correlates/determinants (88%). Likewise, most interventions (88% of articles) targeted individual factors. Most qualitative articles explored PA barriers and facilitators (57%). A range of quantitative and qualitative research has been conducted on parental PA. This review highlights opportunities for evidence synthesis to inform intervention development (such as barriers and facilitators of parental PA) and identifies gaps in the literature, for example, around paternal PA. osf.io/qt9up.

Maternal near miss (MNM) is a useful means to examine quality of obstetric care. Since the introduction of the WHO MNM criteria in 2011, it has been tested and validated, and is being used globally. We sought to systematically review all available studies using the WHO MNM criteria to develop global and regional estimates of MNM frequency and examine its application across settings. We conducted a systematic review by implementing a comprehensive literature search from 2011 to 2018 in six databases with no language restrictions. The predefined data collection tool included sections on study characteristics, frequency of near-miss cases and study quality. Meta-analysis was performed by regional groupings. Reported adaptations, modifications and remarks about application were extracted. 7292 articles were screened by title and abstract, and 264 articles were retrieved for full text review for the meta-analysis. An additional 230 articles were screened for experiences with application of the WHO MNM criteria. Sixty studies with near-miss data from 56 countries were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled global near-miss estimate was 1.4% (95% CI 0.4% to 2.5%) with regional variation in MNM frequency. Of the 20 studies that made adaptations to the criteria, 19 were from low-resource settings where lab-based criteria were adapted due to resource limitations. The WHO MNM criteria have enabled the comparison of global and sub-national estimates of MNM frequency. There has been good uptake in low-resource countries but contextual adaptations are necessary.

Low back pain (LBP) is the most prevalent musculoskeletal condition worldwide and it is responsible for high healthcare costs and resources consumption. It represents a challenge for primary care services that struggle to implement evidence-based practice. Models of care (MoCs) are arising as effective solutions to overcome this problem, leading to better health outcomes. Although there is growing evidence regarding MoCs for the management of LBP patients, an analysis of the existing body of evidence has not yet been carried out. Therefore, this scoping review aims to identify and map the current evidence about the implementation of MoCs for LBP in primary healthcare. Findings from this study will inform policy makers, health professionals and researchers about their characteristics and outcomes, guiding future research and best practice models. This protocol will follow the Joanna Briggs Institute methodological guidelines for scoping reviews. Studies that implemented an MoC for LBP patients in primary healthcare will be included. Searches will be conducted on PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PEDro, Scopus, Web of Science, grey literature databases and relevant organisations websites. This review will consider records from 2000, written in English, Portuguese or Spanish. Two researchers will independently screen all citations and full-text articles and abstract data. Data extracted will include the identification of the MoC, key elements of the intervention, organisational components, context-specific factors and patient-related, system-related and implementation-related outcomes. As a secondary analysis, this study does not require ethical approval. It will provide a comprehensive understanding on existing MoCs for LBP, outcomes and context-related challenges that may influence implementation in primary healthcare, which is meaningful knowledge to inform future research in this field. Findings will be disseminated through research papers in peer-reviewed journals, presentations at relevant conferences and documentation for professional organisations and stakeholders.

Refugees are disproportionately affected by extreme traumatic events that can violate core beliefs and life goals (i.e., global meaning) and cause significant distress. This mixed-methods study used an exploratory sequential design to assess meaning violations in a sample of Syrian refugees living in Portugal. For this purpose, we cross-culturally adapted the Global Meaning Violations Scale (GMVS) for use with Arabic-speaking refugees. In total, 43 war-affected Syrian adults participated in the two-phase study. Participants completed measures of trauma and narrated violations as they filled out the newly adapted GMVS-ArabV. GMVS-ArabV validity evidence based on response processes was investigated through Phase 1 focus groups (FGs; n = 2), whereas data from Phase 2 cognitive interviews (n = 38) were used to preliminarily explore the measure's internal structure through descriptive statistics as well as culture- and trauma-informed content evidence through thematic analysis. The results suggested highest goal (M = 3.51, SD = 1.46) and lowest belief (M = 2.38, SD = 1.59) violations of educational goals and religious beliefs, respectively. Themes related to stressors, item formulation, response scale, and the global meaning construct suggested that (a) beliefs and goals can be differentially violated by different stressors; (b) much like war trauma, including torture, daily stressors can additionally shatter pretrauma global meaning; and (c) refugees reappraise meaning and suffer violations anew throughout their migration journeys. The GMVS-ArabV offers a promising tool for exploring shattered cognitions in refugees and informs evidence-based approaches to trauma recovery and psychological adjustment in postmigration settings (the Arabic abstract and keywords are available in the Supplementary Materials).

Evaluating the relationship between health care costs and quality is paramount in the current health care economic climate, as an understanding of value is needed to drive policy decisions. While many policy analyses are focused on the larger health care system, there is a pressing need for surgically focused economic analyses. Surgical care is costly, and innovative technology is constantly introduced into the operating room, and surgical care impacts patients' short- and long-term physical and economic well-being. Unfortunately, significant knowledge gaps exist regarding the relationship between cost, value, and economic impact of surgical interventions. Despite the plethora of health care data available in the forms of claims databases, discharge databases, and national surveys, no single source of data contains all the information needed for every policy-relevant analysis of surgical care. For this reason, it is important to understand which data are available and what can be accomplished with each of the data sets. In this article, we provide an overview of databases commonly used in surgical health services research. We focus our review on the following five categories of data: governmental claims databases, commercial claims databases, hospital-based clinical databases, state and national discharge databases, and national surveys. For each, we present a summary of the database sampling frame, clinically relevant variables, variables relevant to economic analyses, strengths, weaknesses, and examples of surgically relevant analyses. This review is intended to improve understanding of the current landscape of data available, as well as stimulate novel analyses among surgical populations. Ongoing debates over national health policy reforms may shape the delivery of surgical care for decades to come. Appropriate use of available data resources can improve our understanding of the economic impact of surgical care on our health care system and our patients. Regular Review, Level V.

Lower socioeconomic status (SES) is associated with lower academic achievement; however, this relationship is understudied in children with chronic kidney disease (CKD). This study examined the relationship between SES and academic performance in children and adolescents with CKD. A total of 377 participants aged 6-18 years with CKD stages 1-5 (n = 199), on dialysis (n = 43) or with a kidney transplant (n = 135) were recruited. Five SES measures and a composite SES index were examined for associations with parent-rated average or above average academic performance in numeracy and literacy using multivariable logistic regression. Participants' median age was 12.6 years (IQR 8.9-15.5). Adjusted odds ratios (aOR) (95%CI) for better performance in numeracy and literacy, respectively, were 0.71 (0.44-1.15) and 0.75 (0.45-1.23) for children whose caregivers had lower educational attainment; 0.46 (0.26-0.80) and 0.53 (0.30-0.93) for lower household income; 0.52 (0.32-0.85) and 0.44 (0.26-0.73) for caregivers who were unemployed; 0.68 (0.41-1.12) and 0.59 (0.35-1.00) for caregivers with poor self-rated financial status; and 0.93 (0.53-1.64) and 1.00 (0.56-1.79) for caregivers who did not own their own home. Compared with the highest SES index quartile, the aORs for better performance by SES quartile in descending order were 1.24 (0.60-2.54), 0.76 (0.37-1.58), and 0.39 (0.18-0.86) for numeracy and 0.88 (0.41-1.85), 0.77 (0.35-1.66), and 0.32 (0.14-0.72) for literacy. No interactions were identified between SES and CKD stage, child age, or gender. Across all CKD stages, children from lower SES families are less likely to perform well in literacy and numeracy than those from higher SES households. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

Malnutrition is substantially higher among children with cerebral palsy (CP) in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) when compared with the general population. Access to appropriate interventions is crucial for better management of malnutrition and nutritional outcomes of those children. We aimed to review the existing evidence on nutrition interventions for children with CP in LMICs. Online databases, i.e., PubMed and Scopus, and Google Scholar were searched up to 10 January 2022, to identify peer-reviewed publications/evidence on LMIC focused nutritional management guidelines/interventions. Following title screening and abstract review, full articles that met the inclusion/exclusion criteria were retained for data charting. Information about the study characteristics, nutrition interventions, and their effectiveness were extracted. Descriptive data were reported. Eight articles published between 2008 and 2019 were included with data from a total of  There is a substantial knowledge gap on nutrition interventions for children with CP in LMICs. This hinders the development of best practice guidelines for the nutritional management of children with CP in those settings. Findings suggest interventions directly related to growth/feeding of children had a better outcome than behavioral interventions. This should be considered in planning of nutrition-focused intervention or comprehensive services for children with CP in LMICs.

Reports an error in "Self-report measures of coercive process in couple and parent-child dyads" by Danielle M. Mitnick, Michael F. Lorber, Amy M. Smith Slep, Richard E. Heyman, Shu Xu, Lisanne J. Bulling, Sara R. Nichols and J. Mark Eddy (

Reports an error in "Acculturation, coping, and PTSD in Hispanic 9/11 rescue and recovery workers" by Dianne Ciro, Robert H. Pietrzak, Rufina J. Lee, Janice Rodriguez, Ritika Singh, Ryan Salim, Clyde B. Schechter, Steven M. Southwick, Michael Crane, Denise J. Harrison, Benjamin J. Luft, Jacqueline M. Moline, Iris G. Udasin and Adriana Feder (

Reports an error in "High sensitivity and specificity screening for clinically significant intimate partner violence" by Richard E. Heyman, Katherine J. W. Baucom, Shu Xu, Amy M. Smith Slep, Jeffery D. Snarr, Heather M. Foran, Michael F. Lorber, Alexandra K. Wojda and David J. Linkh (

Reports an error in "The impact of adverse childhood experiences on adolescent health risk indicators in a community sample" by Elizabeth C. Meeker, Briannon C. O'Connor, Lourah M. Kelly, Debra D. Hodgeman, Amy H. Scheel-Jones and Cassandra Berbary ( The sample included 1,532 adolescents who completed the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance Survey in their local high schools. By local consensus, this national survey was augmented with questions exploring prevalence of 11 commonly identified ACEs. After controlling for age, gender, and race, youth with multiple ACEs reported 3 to 15 times the odds of a range of negative health experiences. Findings indicate a serious burden of ACEs on adolescent social emotional well-being. This study did not include youth in out of school placements or who were not present the day the survey was given, and thus represent youth who may benefit from universal prevention and intervention programs. Universal screening of ACEs and health-related outcomes suggests that reporting multiple ACEs is strongly related to a wide range of mental health, violence, and substance use histories. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, all rights reserved).

Reports an error in "Can subjective perceptions of trauma differentiate between ICD-11 PTSD and complex PTSD? A cross-cultural comparison of three African countries" by Yuval Palgi, Thanos Karatzias, Philip Hyland, Mark Shevlin and Menachem Ben-Ezra (

Violence and Abuse in Competitive Sports 

To quantify parents' experiences of respectful care around stillbirth globally. Multi-country, online, cross-sectional survey. Self-identified bereaved parents (n = 3769) of stillborn babies from 44 high- and middle-income countries. Parents' perspectives of seven aspects of care quality, factors associated with respectful care and seven bereavement care practices were compared across geographical regions using descriptive statistics. Respectful care was compared between country-income groups using multivariable logistic regression. Self-reported experience of care around the time of stillbirth. A quarter (25.4%) of 3769 respondents reported disrespectful care after stillbirth and 23.5% reported disrespectful care of their baby. Gestation less than 30 weeks and primiparity were associated with disrespect. Reported respectful care was lower in middle-income countries than in high-income countries (adjusted odds ratio 0.35, 95% CI 0.29-0.42, p < 0.01). In many countries, aspects of care quality need improvement, such as ensuring families have enough time with providers. Participating respondents from Latin America and southern Europe reported lower satisfaction across all aspects of care quality compared with northern Europe. Unmet need for memory-making activities in middle-income countries was high. Many parents experience disrespectful care around stillbirth. Provider training and system-level support to address practical barriers are urgently needed. However, some practices (which are important to parents) can be readily implemented such as memory-making activities and referring to the baby by name. One in four experience disrespectful care after stillbirth. Parents want more time with providers and their babies, to talk and memory-make.

The sharing of electronic healthcare records (EHRs) is important to healthcare and medical research. However, institutions are faced with difficulties in privacy protection and efficiently secure data exchange. The main objective of this study is to propose a controllable secure blockchain-based EHRs sharing scheme. For this purpose, blockchain technologies are combined with interplanetary file systems (IPFS) to provide efficient secure EHRs sharing. Firstly, the IPFS-based EHR file system (IEFS) is designed to save and share large-size EHR files among medical institutions. With the high-throughput content-addressed block storage model and appropriate redundant backup of IPFS, IEFS is tamper-resistant and free of a single point of failure. Secondly, the blockchain is used to implement the blockchain-based EHR abstract system (BEAS) to manipulate EHR abstracts access. In BEAS, the EHR file addresses generated by IEFS are encrypted and saved in EHR abstracts for privacy protection. Since EHR abstracts are encrypted by patients' public keys, the sharing of EHR files is under the control of patients. In our experiment, a prototype system is developed to validate the proposed scheme. The experimental results showed that (1) EHRs are securely shared under the control of patients and (2) EHR files are retrieved at an acceptable speed supported by IPFS technology. In this paper, solutions to some important practical issues such as incapacitated patients, encryption key forgetting/missing, and efficient interaction of doctors with EHRs sharing scheme are also seriously discussed.

An international systematic review concluded that individuals with poor social health (social isolation, lack of social support or loneliness) are 30% more likely to develop coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke. Notably, the two included Australian papers reported no association between social health and CHD or stroke. We undertook a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate the association between social isolation, lack of social support and loneliness and cardiovascular disease (CVD) incidence among people living in Australia and New Zealand. Four electronic databases were systematically searched for longitudinal studies published until June 2020. Two reviewers undertook title/abstract screen and one reviewer undertook full-text screen and data extraction. Quality was assessed using the Newcastle - Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale. Of the 725 unique records retrieved, five papers met our inclusion criteria. These papers reported data from three Australian longitudinal datasets, with a total of 2137 CHD and 590 stroke events recorded over follow-up periods ranging from 3 to 16 years. Reports of two CHD and two stroke outcomes were suitable for meta-analysis. The included papers reported no association between social health and incidence of CVD in all fully adjusted models and most unadjusted models. Our systematic review is inconclusive as it identified only a few studies, which relied heavily on self-reported CVD. Further studies using medical diagnosis of CVD, and assessing the potential influence of residential remoteness, are needed to better understand the relationship between social health and CVD incidence in Australia and New Zealand.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The phenomenon of child killing (neonaticide, infanticide or filicide) is a rare event that cannot be fully explained by a single construct as each case involves the unique life circumstances of each woman who committed the act(s). WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The majority of women who committed neonaticide, infanticide or filicide regretted the act and regretted not seeking help from family and healthcare professionals. Women who committed neonaticide, infanticide or filicide in the main had complex circumstances characterised by poverty, abusive relationships, poor family and social support or over reliance on family supports and mental health issues. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Women require a clear plan of what to do if they feel overwhelmed with caring for a baby or child. Healthcare professionals involved with women in the perinatal period need to explore further women's expressions of "not being ready to be a mother" which for some women may be pathological and require further assessment. Women need to be made aware of the support service pathways available to them during the perinatal period and beyond. Further research is needed to explore and learn from women's experiences to reduce child homicide mortality and support women and their families. INTRODUCTION: Meaning and personal experiences of the acts of neonaticide, infanticide and filicide have rarely been investigated from the perspectives of the women who committed those acts. To identify and synthesise evidence on the perspectives of women directly involved in the complex phenomena of neonaticide, infanticide or filicide from the evidence available on their unique point of view and how these experiences have affected women's lives. To understand how the experiences and perceptions of women who engaged in child killing present similarities or differences according to the child's age at time of death. Qualitative primary studies published in English were included if they explored the experiences of women who engaged in neonaticide, infanticide or filicide. Methodological quality was assessed using the qualitative Critical Appraisal Skills Programme (CASP) checklist. A thematic analysis framework guided the synthesis. Seven papers reporting on five studies met the inclusion criteria for the review. Three analytical themes were identified: Not ready to be a mother; Intentionality and premeditation in the context of trauma and mental health issues; Sorrow of regret. The majority of women who committed neonaticide, infanticide or filicide had complex psychological, social and personal circumstances and in the main regretted the act and regretted not seeking help from family and healthcare professionals. Healthcare professionals in contact with women during the perinatal period and beyond need to be aware of the profiles of vulnerable women and undertake holistic integrated assessments to identify the woman's personal context, changes in interpersonal relationships, social isolation or over reliance on family supports and changes in mental health status or new onset of mental health conditions. Women require a clear plan of what to do if they feel overwhelmed with caring for a baby or child. Healthcare professionals involved with women in the perinatal period need to explore further women's expressions of "not being ready to be a mother" which for some women might be pathological and require further assessment. Women need to be made aware of the support services pathways available to them during the perinatal period and beyond. Further research is needed to explore and learn from women's experiences of each of the phenomena separately to reduce child homicide mortality and support women and their families.

The objective of this review is to examine mobile injury prevention programs for children and their families. Unintentional injuries are the leading cause of death worldwide for children aged one to 18years. Providing injury prevention education to children and their families is a necessary and critical element in health promotion. This review will consider studies that include children from birth to 18years of age and their parents or guardians. The concept of this review is mobile or traveling injury prevention education programs for the specified population. Studies conducted in any geographic location or setting that report on how these programs are being utilized, who is providing the education, where education is being provided, who is funding the education, and outcome measures reported with mobile injury prevention programs will be included in the review. This review will follow JBI's guidance for scoping reviews. The key databases to be searched include MEDLINE (PubMed), CINAHL (EBSCO), the Cochrane Library (Wiley), ERIC (EBSCO), Web of Science (Clarivate), and Embase (Elsevier). The search for unpublished studies will consist of OpenGrey ( www.opengrey.eu ) and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Sciences and Engineering Collection (ProQuest). Studies conducted in English, in any year, will be included. Two independent reviewers will perform title and abstract screening, retrieval and review of full-text studies, and data extraction. The results will be presented in diagrammatic or tabular form that aligns with a narrative summary.

Child injury is not seen as a new issue in medical science and public health; however, for years it has been either generally brushed aside or been conspicuously absent from the world health agenda. This study aims at investigating the factors leading to house injuries and attempts to highlight mothers' pivotal role to provide a safe place for children at home. A qualitative research method was used. There were 29 interviews in total: 12 interviews with mothers, 9 with cure and prevention specialists and 8 with researchers. The data were gathered through semistructured interviews conducted in participants' workplaces namely universities, research centres, health centres and in some cases through telephone in 3 months from February 2021 to May 2021 in Tehran, Iran. The participants were selected through non-probability and purposive sampling. All of the recorded interviews and notes were accurately evaluated and data analysis was performed based on the content analysis. In this study, 29 participants' views were examined: 12 mothers (41.37%), 8 researchers (27.5%) and 9 treatment and prevention experts (31%). After the analysis of the interviews, 96 codes, 14 subcategories and 3 main categories were extracted. The main categories included the predisposing factors, reinforcing factors and enabling factors. The subcategories included perceived sensitivity, perceived susceptibility, health control centre, perceived benefits, observational or peripheral learning, social support, family support, abstract norms, valuing children's health, background factors, skills, rules and regulations, child's character traits and self-efficacy to overcome barriers. House injuries among children are a complicated and multifaceted issue that requires a comprehensive investigation to determine the contributing factors.

Maintaining healthful, safe, and productive work environments for workers in correctional settings is a matter of deep consequence to the workers themselves, the institutions they serve, the incarcerated individuals with whom they share space, and inevitably, to our wider community. We hypothesized that an examination of the academic literature would reveal opportunities for an improved approach to research in these settings. We performed a scoping literature review using search terms related to the occupational and environmental health of workers in correctional environments, limited to studies performed in the United States. A total of 942 studies underwent title and abstract screening, 342 underwent full-text review, and 147 underwent data extraction by a single reviewer. The results revealed a body of literature that tends strongly toward analyses of stress and burnout of correctional staff, largely based on self-reported data from cross-sectional surveys. Those studies related to physical health were predominantly represented by topics of infectious disease. There were few or no studies examining exposures or outcomes related to diagnosable mental health conditions, musculoskeletal injury, environmental hazards, medical or mental health staff, immigration detention settings, or regarding incarcerated workers. There were very few studies that were experimental, longitudinal, or based on objective data. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has promulgated a research strategy for correctional officers that should guide future research for all workers in correctional settings, but realization of these goals will rely upon multidisciplinary collaboration, specific grants to engage researchers, and an improved understanding of the barriers inherent to correctional research, all while maintaining rigorous protection for incarcerated persons as an especially vulnerable population.

The Basics of Decision-Making Capacity: The Top-10 Principles for the Clinical Practice 

To summarize the existing literature evaluating differences in imaging use based on patient race and ethnicity. The authors performed a structured search of four databases for the dates January 1, 2000, to April 13, 2021, using key words and derivatives focused on imaging and patient race. Retrieved citations were reviewed by abstract and then full text to identify articles that evaluated the likelihood of imaging use by patient race or ethnicity controlling for sociodemographic factors. Data regarding publication characteristics, study population, clinical setting, and results was extracted and summarized. The structured search identified 2,938 articles, of which 206 met inclusion criteria. Most studies (87%, 179 of 206) were conducted in the United States, and the majority (72%, 149 of 206) found decreased or inappropriate imaging use in minority groups. Breast cancer screening was the most common clinical setting (50%, 104 of 206), followed by cancer care (10%, 21 of 206) and general imaging use (9%, 19 of 206). Government-administered surveys were the most common data source (40%, 82 of 206). Only a small minority of studies (8%, 17 of 206) evaluated strategies to mitigate the unequal use of imaging based on patient race and ethnicity. The existing literature shows decreased or inappropriate use of diagnostic imaging for minority patients across a wide variety of clinical settings. Although the number of articles on the topic is large, the majority are clustered around specific topics, and few articles evaluate potential strategies to reduce the inequitable use of diagnostic imaging.

Waterpipe (WP) smoking is the leading tobacco use method among young adults in Lebanon. WP use is harmful, yet misperceptions about its safety exist. Implementing pictorial health warning labels (HWLs) on WP products is a promising strategy to correct this misperception. This study aimed to culturally adapt a set of 12 pictorial HWLs recently developed by an international expert panel to young adults in Lebanon. HWLs were grouped into four themes: WP health risks, WP harm to others, WP-specific harms, and WP harm compared to cigarettes. We conducted nine focus groups among WP smokers and nonsmokers (N = 77; 52% females; age 18-34 years) to explore participants' perceptions of the developed HWLs on attention, reaction (fear, avoidance), effectiveness (harm perception), and improvement (design/content, relatedness). Sessions were audio-taped, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed using directed qualitative content analysis. Emotionally provocative warnings were perceived as most effective, while symbolic and abstract warnings were found not believable. Warnings depicting visible bodily health effects and harm to babies seemed most promising. Participants were generally skeptical about Theme 4 because it might encourage switching to cigarettes. For cultural adaptation, participants recommended using shorter text with affirmative phrases, increasing the picture's size and improving their quality, adding the WP device picture to enhance HWLs' relatability, and develop testimonial messages that depict real people and stories. Results will provide Lebanon and perhaps other countries in the Eastern Mediterranean Region with evidence-based HWLs that they can further develop, test, and implement within their specific culture. Results provide Lebanon with evidence-based WP-specific pictorial HWLs that can be further developed and tested. HWLs provoking negative affect, with visible health consequences, and depicting harm to babies are promising. Participants recommended using definitive scientific claims presenting the health risks in numerical form. However, this needs to be balanced against protecting the credibility of HWLs scientifically and legally. Increasing the HWLs size and adding the WP device picture to the HWLs can enhance their relatability. Further research can help address some questions raised by this study, such as the potential of testimonial warnings that depict real people.

Mindful Parenting: Mindfulness in the Parent-Child Relationship 

This scoping review aimed to chart the scientific literature on the association between workplace demands with cognitive health, and whether race and ethnicity have a direct or indirect relationship between occupational complexity and cognitive health. PRISMA scoping review guided this study. Peer-reviewed articles were drawn from 5 databases. Inclusion criteria were populations aged 18 and older, U.S.-based studies, a comprehensive conceptualization of workplace demands, and cognitive health outcomes. All articles were screened by title and abstract; qualifying articles proceeded to full-text review. The majority of studies drew from theories that did not interrogate heterogeneity and minority aging experiences. Consequently, the majority of studies did not include race and ethnicity in their analyses. A small and growing body of research drew from critical perspectives and interrogated cognitive health inequities by race and ethnicity within the context of workplace demands. The association between workplace demands and cognitive health is not linear when race and ethnicity are examined. Emerging evidence suggests interventions to improve substantive complexity among racial and ethnic minorities, and individuals with low education are a promising avenue for intervention research. We discuss integrating emerging theories, such as minority stress and revised social determinants of health frameworks, to sharpen the focus and broaden our understanding on racial and ethnic cognitive health inequities in an emerging area of prevention research. This research can advance our basic understanding of preventable health inequities as well as provide important information for interventions.

To better support family-centered care surrounding dialysis initiation, greater understanding of caregiver experience is necessary. Using thematic analysis, we conducted a secondary analysis of semi-structured interview data from a qualitative study of caregivers of children receiving dialysis recruited from 3 pediatric centers. Prominent themes in caregiver experience of caring for a child initiating dialysis were identified. Thirty-five caregivers participated. Three major themes emerged from qualitative analysis: (1) parenting disrupted - caregivers experienced an acute disruption in their parenting role due to the unexpected, emergent circumstances and vast information accompanying their child's diagnosis; (2) redefining parenting - caregivers sought to reestablish their innate parental role and foster their evolving medical provider role through reassurance that their child could survive, communication with the medical team, and engaging in care plan development; and (3) leveraging dual identities - to positively impact their child's experience and enable flourishing, caregivers leveraged their established caregiver role and newly realized medical provider role through voicing their perspectives, watching over their child's care, and preparing for future changes in their child's health. If caregivers' evolution was not nurtured and enabled, acute fluctuations in their child's care could contribute to future disruption and need to restore their parental role. However, if caregiver development was fostered, caregivers acquired increased ability to prepare for vacillations in their child's care. Improving delivery of family-centered care and support of caregivers at dialysis initiation will require directed efforts by nephrology care teams to foster caregiver evolution and resilience and respond to the family's changing experience of kidney disease. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

By explaining the development of health inequalities, eco-social theories highlight the importance of social environments that children are embedded in. The most important environment during early childhood is the family, as it profoundly influences children's health through various characteristics. These include family processes, family structure/size, and living conditions, and are closely linked to the socioeconomic position (SEP) of the family. Although it is known that the SEP contributes to health inequalities in early childhood, the effects of family characteristics on health inequalities remain unclear. The objective of this scoping review is to synthesise existing research on the mediating and moderating effects of family characteristics on socioeconomic health inequalities (HI) during early childhood in high-income countries. This review followed the methodology of "Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews". To identify German and English scientific peer-reviewed literature published from January 1 The search yielded 7,089 records. After title/abstract and full-text screening, only ten peer-reviewed articles were included in the synthesis, which analysed the effects of family characteristics on HI in early childhood. Family processes (i.e., rules /descriptive norms, stress, parental screen time, parent-child conflicts) are identified to have mediating or moderating effects. While families' living conditions (i.e., TVs in children's bedrooms) are suggested as mediating factors, family structure/size (i.e., single parenthood, number of children in the household) appear to moderate health inequalities. Family characteristics contribute to health inequalities in early childhood. The results provide overall support of models of family stress and family investment. However, knowledge gaps remain regarding the role of family health literacy, regarding a wide range of children's health outcomes (e.g., oral health, inflammation parameters, weight, and height), and the development of health inequalities over the life course starting at birth.

Health professionals need training to provide trauma-informed care (TIC) for children with adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), which can affect short- and long-term health. We summarize and evaluate published curricula for health professionals on ACEs and TIC. We searched PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, CINAHL, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PsychInfo, and MedEdPORTAL through January 2021. Studies meeting the following criteria were included: Described teaching interventions on ACEs, TIC, and child abuse and maltreatment; included health care providers or trainees as learners; were written in English; included an abstract; and described a curriculum and evaluation. We reviewed 2264 abstracts, abstracted data from 79 studies, and selected 51 studies for qualitative synthesis. Studies focused on ACEs/TIC (27), child abuse (14), domestic/intimate partner violence (6), and child maltreatment/parental physical punishment (4). Among these 51 studies, 43 were published since 2010. Learners included a mix of health professionals (34) and students (17). Duration, content, and quality of the 51 curricula were highly variable. An analysis of 10 exemplar curricula on ACEs and/or TIC revealed high and very high quality for methods and moderate to very high quality for curriculum evaluation, suggesting that they may be good models for other educational programs. Four of the 10 exemplars used randomized controlled trials to evaluate efficacy. Studies were limited to English language and subject to publication bias. ACEs and TIC are increasingly relevant to teaching health professionals, especially pediatricians, and related teaching curricula offer good examples for other programs.

Health researchers from low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) are under-represented in the academic literature. Scientific writing and publishing interventions may help researchers publish their findings; however, we lack evidence about the prevalence and effectiveness of such interventions. This review describes interventions for researchers in LMICs aimed at strengthening capacity for writing and publishing academic journal articles. We followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines to report literature searches in PubMed, Embase, Global Health, Scopus and ERIC. Our keywords included LMICs, low-income and middle-income countries, health research and writing/publication support interventions, with no restrictions on publication date. Our screening process consisted of title screening, abstract review and full-text review. We collected information about the content, implementation and evaluation of each intervention, if included. We identified 20 interventions designed to strengthen capacity for scientific writing and publishing. We summarised information from the 14 interventions that reported submitted or published papers as outcomes separately, reasoning that because they provide quantifiable metrics of success, they may offer particular insights into intervention components leading to publication. The writing and publishing components in this 'Publications Reported' group were an average length of 5.4 days compared with 2.5 days in the other group we refer to as 'Other Interventions.' Whereas all 14 Publications Reported interventions incorporated mentors, only two of five in the Other Interventions group incorporated mentors. Across interventions, leaders expressed the importance of a high ratio of mentors to participants, the need to accommodate time demands of busy researchers, and the necessity of a budget for open access fees and high-quality internet connectivity. Writing and publishing interventions in LMICs are an underutilised opportunity for capacity strengthening. To facilitate the implementation of high-quality interventions, future writing and publishing interventions should share their experiences by publishing detailed information about the approach and effectiveness of the interventions.

Many pediatric hospitals offer legacy interventions for families to promote coping and support grief prior to and following the death of a child. Despite this practice, parent perceptions of the value of legacy activities are not well described, and best practices for offering and creating legacy interventions remain poorly understood. To characterize bereaved parents' perspectives on the value of legacy activities; to describe parent recommendations for optimizing provision of legacy activities by child life specialists and music therapists. In this qualitative study, a purposive sample of 19 bereaved parents of children who died from cancer participated in semi-structured interviews. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed, and analyzed inductively using content analysis to identify key concepts and emerging themes. Analysis of transcripts revealed bereaved parent insights and recommendations across three core themes: 1) the value of legacy items and interventions; 2) the practical roles, uses, and functions of legacy items, and 3) best practices for offering legacy interventions. Bereaved parents sought meaning and purpose in abstract and concrete manifestations of legacy. Parents often used legacy items in specific ways to promote emotional expression and process their grief. Communication, timing, and creativity significantly influenced parent perceptions of legacy-building. Parents recommended individualized assessments to optimize provision of legacy interventions. Bereaved parents emphasized the meaningfulness of legacy-building activities and the need for an individualized approach when offering these interventions. Future research should explore the perspectives and recommendations of patients and siblings on legacy activities.

Low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) face a double burden of malnutrition (DBM), whereby overnutrition and undernutrition coexist within the same individual, household, or population. This analysis investigates global inequalities in household-level DBM, expressed as a stunted child with an overweight mother, and its association with economic, social, and political globalisation across country income and household wealth. We pooled anthropometric and demographic data for 1 132 069 children (aged <5 years) and their mothers (aged 15-49 years) from 189 Demographic and Health Surveys in 55 LMICs between 1992 and 2018. These data were combined with country-level data on economic, social, and political globalisation from the Konjunkturforschungsstelle Globalisation Index and gross national income (GNI) from the World Bank. Multivariate associations between DBM and household wealth, GNI, and globalisation and their interactions were tested using multilevel logistic regression models with country and year fixed-effects and robust standard errors clustered by country. The probability of DBM was higher among richer households in poorer LMICs and poorer households in richer LMICs. Economic globalisation was associated with higher odds of DBM among the poorest households (odds ratio 1·49, 95% CI 1·20-1·86) compared with the richest households. These associations attenuated as GNI increased. Social globalisation was associated with higher odds of DBM (1·39, 95% CI 1·16-1·65), independently of household wealth or country income. No associations were identified between political globalisation and DBM. Increases in economic and social globalisation were associated with higher DBM, although the impacts of economic globalisation were mostly realised by the world's poorest. The economic patterning of DBM observed in this study calls for subpopulation-specific double-duty actions, which should further aim to mitigate the potential negative and unequal impacts of globalisation. UK Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council. For the Spanish and Portuguese translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

There are a host of emergent technologies with the potential to improve hospital care in low- and middle-income countries such as Vietnam. Wearable monitors and artificial intelligence-based decision support systems could be integrated with hospital-based digital health systems such as electronic health records (EHRs) to provide higher level care at a relatively low cost. However, the appropriate and sustainable application of these innovations in low- and middle-income countries requires an understanding of the local government's requirements and regulations such as technology specifications, cybersecurity, data-sharing protocols, and interoperability. This scoping review aims to explore the current state of digital health research and the policies that govern the adoption of digital health systems in Vietnamese hospitals. We conducted a scoping review using a modification of the PRISMA-ScR (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews) guidelines. PubMed and Web of Science were searched for academic publications, and Thư Viện Pháp Luật, a proprietary database of Vietnamese government documents, and the Vietnam Electronic Health Administration website were searched for government documents. Google Scholar and Google Search were used for snowballing searches. The sources were assessed against predefined eligibility criteria through title, abstract, and full-text screening. Relevant information from the included sources was charted and summarized. The review process was primarily undertaken by one researcher and reviewed by another researcher during each step. In total, 11 academic publications and 20 government documents were included in this review. Among the academic studies, 5 reported engineering solutions for information systems in hospitals, 2 assessed readiness for EHR implementation, 1 tested physicians' performance before and after using clinical decision support software, 1 reported a national laboratory information management system, and 2 reviewed the health system's capability to implement eHealth and artificial intelligence. Of the 20 government documents, 19 were promulgated from 2013 to 2020. These regulations and guidance cover a wide range of digital health domains, including hospital information management systems, general and interoperability standards, cybersecurity in health organizations, conditions for the provision of health information technology (HIT), electronic health insurance claims, laboratory information systems, HIT maturity, digital health strategies, electronic medical records, EHRs, and eHealth architectural frameworks. Research about hospital-based digital health systems in Vietnam is very limited, particularly implementation studies. Government regulations and guidance for HIT in health care organizations have been released with increasing frequency since 2013, targeting a variety of information systems such as electronic medical records, EHRs, and laboratory information systems. In general, these policies were focused on the basic specifications and standards that digital health systems need to meet. More research is needed in the future to guide the implementation of digital health care systems in the Vietnam hospital setting.

Parents did not see themselves as role models for children regarding use of quad bikes. Parents seemed to misjudge their children's maturity and capabilities. Risk acceptance was a common issue, due to risk normalization. There is a need for an age limit for drivers of adult-size quad bikes. When seeking to explain the many accidents involving children on quad bikes, it is critical to understand the norms and risk perceptions of their parents, because parents are responsible for their children's safety. This study explored attitudes and behavior among parents of rural children using quad bikes and their experiences of incidents and injuries. Information obtained from two focus group discussions, one with young adults and one with parents, and an in-depth interview with a quad bike distributor was used to develop an interview guide. The guide was used in telephone interviews with Swedish parents (n = 41) and some children ages 5 to 14 (n = 9) between autumn 2015 and spring 2016. Analysis of the results revealed eight themes: (1) how quad bikes are used, (2) risk awareness, (3) safety information could help other parents, (4) parents' perception of children's abilities, (5) children's learning, (6) children`s perspective, (7) rules and responsibilities, and (8) risk acceptance. Major findings were that parents were aware of the risks and had a strong commitment to children's safety, but also showed risk acceptance. To increase the safety of quad bike use, recommendations to organizations and authorities are presented, such as an age limit for drivers of all adult-size quad bikes and safety labeling of quad bikes, with information clarifying the rules for specific vehicles.

Huntington's disease (HD) commonly presents with impaired social functioning. Specifically, many patients exhibit social withdrawal, or decreased engagement in social activities. Despite the frequency of social withdrawal in HD, no review has been previously published on this subject. The aim of this study was to conduct a scoping review of social withdrawal in HD. Two searches were conducted to identify relevant literature. The articles were screened by title and abstract, followed by full text review for all remaining articles. Consistent with scoping review methodology, data extraction focused on identification of broad themes and knowledge gaps. Eight articles were identified that described social withdrawal in HD. Social withdrawal was exhibited by individuals with varying disease severity, and it occurred both within and outside of the home. Social withdrawal was associated with increased caregiver burden, behavioral issues, and psychiatric, cognitive, and physiological changes. Only one case study described an intervention that increased social participation in a previously withdrawn patient. Although social withdrawal is commonly encountered in clinical settings, this review highlights the need for prospective studies to systematically evaluate social withdrawal in HD. These studies should be designed to consider disease stage and associated HD features as well as caregiver burden and potential interventions. Additionally, objective measures of social withdrawal should be used when possible, as existing instruments measure perceptions of participation levels rather than actual withdrawal behavior. Such studies will lay the groundwork to improve social functioning and quality of life for people with HD.

This study evaluated the influence of environmental degradation on the nutritional value of the main marine macrophytes consumed by green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas) in areas with different degrees of urbanization. Macrophyte assemblages in the highly urbanized area (HUa) showed lower richness compared to the lightly urbanized area (LUa) (Mann-Whitney U test: 10.0 ± 3.6 SD genera and 11.9 ± 4.2 taxa per transect vs. 20.1 ± 7.0 genera and 23.5 ± 9.2 taxa per transect) respectively. Also, diet was poorer with 4.0 ± 1.6 genera per turtle (vs. 8.5 ± 4.0 in HUa) and less diverse with Shannon index of diversity = 0.45 ± 0.29 (vs. 0.64 ± 0.46 in LUa). Body condition was similar in both areas. About half of individuals were classified as having normal body condition, 14-15% as underweight and 23-34% as being emaciated. Fibropapillomatosis prevalence (χ

There is strong evidence that suicides increase after media stories about suicides by celebrities, particularly those that highlight the suicide method (the Werther effect). Much less is known about the Papageno effect-the protective effects of media stories of hope and recovery from suicidal crises. A synthesis of the retrievable evidence is lacking. We aim to summarise findings from randomised controlled trials about the effects of stories of hope and recovery on individuals with some degree of vulnerability to suicide. For this systematic review and individual participant data meta-analysis, we searched PubMed (including MEDLINE), Scopus, Embase, PsycInfo, Web of Science, and Google Scholar published from inception to Sept 6, 2021, without language restrictions. We included trials that reported suicidal ideation (the primary outcome) or help-seeking attitudes or intentions (the secondary outcome) and tested a media narrative of hope and recovery. Studies were excluded if they did not feature a clearly positive story of hope and recovery, or had a control group exposed to suicide-related stimulus material. We contacted the lead or senior authors of all original studies to obtain participant-level data for this study. The primary analysis was restricted to individuals with some vulnerability to suicide. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool for randomised trials. The study is registered with PROSPERO, number CRD42020221341. Our search yielded 7347 records. 3920 records were screened by title and abstract, and 25 full-text records assessed for eligibility. There were eight eligible studies with 2350 participants for which individual participant data were sought. For suicidal ideation, six studies met the inclusion criteria for the primary analysis. Follow-up responses were available for 569 (90%) of 633 participants who were randomised with high vulnerability (345 [55%] allocated to the intervention group and 288 [45%] to the control group). The pooled standardised mean difference (SMD) indicated a small reduction in suicidal ideation of -0·22 (95% CI -0·39 to -0·04, p=0·017; six studies) in the intervention group. For help-seeking attitudes and intentions, four studies met the inclusion criteria and follow-up data were available for 362 (86%) of 420 participants (247 [59%] allocated to the intervention group and 173 [41%] to the control group). The pooled SMD showed no evidence of a difference between the groups (SMD=0·14, 95% CI -0·15 to 0·43, p=0·35; four studies). Low levels of cross-study heterogeneity effects were observed for both analyses (I Media narratives of hope and recovery from suicidal crises appear to have a beneficial effect on suicidal ideation in individuals with some vulnerability, but there is insufficient evidence regarding help-seeking attitudes and intentions. These findings provide new evidence about narratives for suicide prevention. None.

Little is known about suicide mortality among people with HIV in low-income and middle-income countries. This study aimed to assess suicide mortality and its temporal change among people with HIV after diagnosis, then describe potential risk factors. This nationwide, population-based cohort study used data from the China Information System for Disease Control and Prevention (CISDCP), which continually enrolled people diagnosed with HIV in mainland China. We included all people with HIV diagnosed between Jan 1, 2012, and Dec 31, 2018, who were aged 15 years or older at diagnosis. Follow-up started from the date of HIV diagnosis to the date of death, date of last follow-up visit, or Dec 31, 2018, whichever came first. Crude suicide mortality was calculated as the number of suicide deaths divided by person-years at risk in 2012-18 and compared by time after HIV diagnosis. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) were used to compare the relative risk of suicide deaths in people with HIV with the general population. We compared the trends of suicide mortality across three diagnosis year groups (2012-13, 2014-15, and 2016-18) using cumulative incidence curve of suicide. Competing-risk models were used to explore the potential risk factors of suicide. 770 656 people diagnosed with HIV were included in the CISDCP database, 763 287 of whom were aged 15 years or older at diagnosis and had follow-up information available. During follow-up, 2825 (2·0%) of 144 729 all-cause deaths were due to suicide, with a mortality of 142·8 deaths by suicide per 100 000 person-years (95% CI 137·7-148·2). People with HIV were at an increased risk of suicide compared with the general population (SMR 20·9 [95% CI 20·2-21·7]). The greatest risk was during the first 3 months after diagnosis (SMR 98·1 [93·1-103·4]), which then decreased but was still elevated after the first year (SMR 9·2 [8·5-9·8]). Late diagnosis and never on antiretroviral therapy were independent risk factors for suicide. Suicide mortality decreased during the study period, which coincided with improvement in access to care and treatment coverage. This study suggests the importance of targeted suicide prevention for people with HIV throughout the course of diagnosis and that the focus of efforts should be concentrated on the first 3 months after diagnosis. Our findings highlight the urgent need to integrate suicide screening and prevention in HIV care. Young Scholar Scientific Research Foundation of National Center for AIDS/STD Control and Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

This study aimed to develop a reliable tool for the abstraction of data from crisis chat transcripts; to describe chatters' suicide risk status and selected counselor behaviors; and to examine the relationship of chatters' self-reported pre-chat suicidal thoughts to counselor behaviors and to chatters' disclosures of suicide risk during the chat conversation. Coders used an instrument developed for this study to abstract data from 1034 crisis chats handled by the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline Crisis Chat network in 2015. The relationship of transcript coding data to data from an automated pre-chat survey (PCS) was examined. Lifeline Crisis Chat serves a young (median age = 21), high-risk population: 84.0% of chats (869/1034) came from chatters endorsing current or recent suicidal thoughts on the PCS. Counselors engaged in rapport-building on 93.3%, problem-solving on 70.1%, and suicide risk assessment on 67.7% of these 869 chats. Counselor risk assessment behavior, and the availability of information on suicide risk in the chat transcript, varied significantly by the chatter's PCS response. Crisis counselors are able to implement keystones of Lifeline's crisis intervention model over the medium of online chat. Additional efforts are needed to ensure that suicide risk is assessed on every chat.

To assess the frequency and associated characteristics of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among pregnant and postpartum individuals. Cross-sectional study. Prenatal care at a single academic tertiary care centre. Pregnant and postpartum individuals enrolled in prenatal care at a single academic tertiary care centre from 22 March 2021 to 2 April 2021, concurrent with state guidelines recommending COVID-19 vaccination in pregnancy. We used logistic regression to identify characteristics associated with COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, and adjusted for: age, parity, race, trimester of pregnancy, and chronic comorbidities. COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, defined as uncertainty or refusal of the vaccine, despite the availability of vaccine services, in accordance with the World Health Organization (WHO) Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on vaccine hesitancy. Of the 485 individuals screened and approached, 456 (94%) enrolled and completed the survey (435/456, 95% pregnant). The frequency of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy was 46% (95% CI 41%-51%). Sociodemographic characteristics, including non-Hispanic Black race, younger age, lower education, public health insurance receipt, parity >1, and reported substance use, were associated with a higher odds of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, but not clinical risk conditions. Individuals who had a family or friend vaccinated for COVID-19, prior or planned vaccination for tetanus, diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) and/or influenza, and who perceived that vaccination benefited the baby were less likely to express COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy. COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy was frequent among pregnant and postpartum individuals. Those who may face barriers to accessing healthcare services were more likely to report vaccine hesitancy. These results can inform interventions to increase COVID-19 vaccine uptake in pregnancy. COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy is frequent among pregnant and postpartum individuals, and those who face barriers to accessing healthcare services are more likely to report COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy.

To assess the impact of the Fetal Medicine Foundation (FMF) first trimester screening algorithm for pre-eclampsia on health disparities in perinatal death among minority ethnic groups. A retrospective cohort study from July 2016 to December 2020. A large London teaching hospital. All women who underwent first trimester pre-eclampsia risk assessment using either the NICE screening checklist or the FMF multimodal approach. Women considered at high-risk in the FMF cohort were offered 150 mg aspirin before 16 weeks' gestation, serial growth scans and elective birth at 40 weeks. Stillbirth, neonatal death and perinatal death rates stratified by screening method and maternal ethnicity. In the NICE cohort, the perinatal death rate was significantly higher in non-white than white women (7.95 versus 2.63/1000 births, OR 3.035, 95% CI 1.551-5.941). Following the introduction of FMF screening, the perinatal death rate in non-white women fell from 7.95 to 3.22/1000 births (OR 0.403, 95% CI 0.206-0.789), such that it was no longer significantly different from the perinatal mortality rate in white women (3.22 versus 2.55/1000 births, OR 1.261, 95% CI 0.641-2.483). First trimester combined screening for placental dysfunction is associated with a significant reduction in perinatal death in minority ethnic women. Health disparities in perinatal death among ethnic minority women demand urgent attention from both clinicians and health policy makers. The data of this study suggest that this ethnic health inequality may be avoidable. Multimodal early pregnancy placental dysfunction screening can lead to a significant reduction in perinatal deaths in non-white women.

Health Care Planning for the Final Phase of Life - an Advance Care Planning Concept in Germany 

Transitions at the End of Life 

«State of the Art» on Advance Directive Consultations 

Advance Directives in Exceptional Situations 

Dealing with Desire to Die in Palliative Care 

To assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on physical abuse in young children, we compared the following before and during the pandemic: (1) skeletal survey volume, (2) percent of skeletal surveys revealing clinically unsuspected (occult) fractures, and (3) clinical severity of presentation. We hypothesized that during the pandemic, children with minor abusive injuries would be less likely to present for care, but severely injured children would present at a comparable rate to prepandemic times. We expected that during the pandemic, the volume of skeletal surveys would decrease but the percentage revealing occult fractures would increase and that injury severity would increase. We conducted a retrospective study of children younger than 2 years undergoing skeletal surveys because of concern for physical abuse at a tertiary children's hospital. Subjects were identified by querying a radiology database during the March 15, 2019-October 15, 2019 (pre-COVID-19) period and the March 15, 2020-October 15, 2020 (COVID-19) period, followed by chart review to refine our population and abstract clinical and imaging data. Pre-COVID-19, 160 skeletal surveys were performed meeting the inclusion criteria, compared with 125 during COVID-19, representing a 22% decrease. No change was observed in identification of occult fractures (6.9% pre-COVID vs 6.4% COVID, P = 0.87). Clinical severity of presentation did not change, and child protective services involvement/referral decreased during COVID. Despite a >20% decrease in skeletal survey performance early in the pandemic, the percent of skeletal surveys revealing occult fractures did not increase. Our results suggest that decreases in medical evaluations for abuse did not stem from decreased presentation of less severely injured children.

Seaweed-based biofertilizers for agriculture are developing rapidly through the innovation and improvement of used raw materials, formulations, methods, and processes. This is evident from the increase in the number of patent applications filed each year in this area of seaweed-based biofertilizer research and development. This study concerns the patentability and patent analysis of seaweed-based biofertilizers between 2000 and 2020. This form of patent analysis englobes information that could be used as a reference by researchers in the fields of agriculture, as well as those interested, especially in biofertilizers. During a search, different keywords and related terms were used, and patents were searched according to title, abstract, and claims. A detailed analysis was then given regarding publication year, patent classifications, inventors, applicants, owners, and jurisdictions. Finally, innovation and improvement of seaweed-based biofertilizers are proposed. 1731 patent documents have been found. The analyzed period confirms that China was ranked first with 1336 patent documents, and 2017 was the year with the maximum number of patent documents (288). The patent classification codes reveal that most of the inventions are intended for soil conditioners and preparation of fertilizers characterized by biological or biochemical treatment steps, as well as organic fertilizers containing added bacterial cultures.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Several studies explore and describe the role of family dynamics in dementia care. However, few focus specifically on the diversity of family relationships that influence family caregivers' experiences of providing care to a relative with dementia. The role of family caregivers engaging in unpaid care of relatives with dementia is becoming more and more critical as the numbers of people living with dementia increase across the globe. Family caregivers are a diverse group of people as there are different categories of kinship relations and thus cannot be viewed as a single collective. They are linked intricately to their family and social support systems, however, they often experience limited family support, and tensions between family members can be a major source of stress. Hence, health professionals need to deepen their understanding of family relationships to enable them to provide effective advocacy and clinical support to family caregivers. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study is unique in that it focuses on a range of family relationships in which a person with dementia finds themselves. It highlights that this network of complex connections influences the caregiving process. The study demonstrates the important role that siblings can play in sharing the caregiving load. However, this sharing is rarely balanced or fair and there is always someone in the family who carries the heaviest load. Communication between family members is frequently a challenge, with family members experiencing denial or an inability to understand the challenges encountered by the family caregiver. Most studies focus on the relationship between the family caregiver and the relative with dementia alone, rather than the family network of the family caregiver and how it influences the caregiving process. This study is unique as it focuses on family dynamics and the family network, particularly the range of family relationships in which family caregivers and their relative with dementia find themselves. Other studies tend to focus on a specific kinship category and the family network, such as an adult child, caring for their parent, but this study presents a wide variety of kinship categories to demonstrate the diversity of family caregiving contexts. The family caregivers in this study all highlighted the need or desire for effective support from the family network. Challenges of communication between family members and the caregiver were also evident and were framed within the existing family dynamic of each family. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING?: The findings suggest the need for communication (training and therapeutic) interventions between family caregivers and other family members (secondary caregivers). Mental health nurses are often well positioned to offer the family caregiver the option to undertake such an intervention. The findings emphasize the diversity of family caregiving situations and argue that mental health nurses can assess the nature of the care situations and work with families on how best to address the needs of the relative with dementia and the main caregiver. However, tensions frequently exist between family members, some of which existed prior to the relative acquiring dementia and other tensions as a consequence of the relative acquiring dementia. Mental health nurses could assist as a mediator between family members in order to assist families to become more cohesive. ABSTRACT: Introduction This article explores the diverse nature of family caregivers, focusing on the different categories of kinship relations. Family caregivers are linked intricately to their families, but often experience limited family support, causing stress and tension between family members. Aim The article aims to explore the family relationships of family members caring for relatives with dementia in order to provide an insight into the role of such relationships on the caregiver relative with dementia dyad. Method A phenomenological, exploratory-descriptive design was used. Eight participants took part and data were obtained using collages and semi-structured interviews. Results A range of family relationship patterns was highlighted including sibling involvement in the caregiving process; spousal involvement in supporting a caregiver of a parent; and spousal involvement in caring for their spouse. Discussion The family caregivers highlighted the need or desire for effective support from the family network. Challenges of communication between family members and the caregiver were also evident and were framed within the existing family dynamic of each family. Implications for Practice Mental health nurses need to deepen their understanding of family relationships to enable them to provide effective advocacy and clinical support to family caregivers and assist families to become more cohesive.

Universal health coverage is one of the WHO End TB Strategy priority interventions and could be achieved-particularly in low-income and middle-income countries-through the expansion of primary health care. We evaluated the effects of one of the largest primary health-care programmes in the world, the Brazilian Family Health Strategy (FHS), on tuberculosis morbidity and mortality using a nationwide cohort of 7·3 million individuals over a 10-year study period. We analysed individuals who entered the 100 Million Brazilians Cohort during the period Jan 1, 2004, to Dec 31, 2013, and compared residents in municipalities with no FHS coverage with residents in municipalities with full FHS coverage. We used a cohort design with multivariable Poisson regressions, adjusted for all relevant demographic and socioeconomic variables and weighted with inverse probability of treatment weighting, to estimate the effect of FHS on tuberculosis incidence, mortality, cure, and case fatality. We also performed a range of stratifications and sensitivity analyses. FHS exposure was associated with lower tuberculosis incidence (rate ratio [RR] 0·78, 95% CI 0·72-0·84) and mortality (0·72, 0·55-0·94), and was positively associated with tuberculosis cure rates (1·04, 1·00-1·08). FHS was also associated with a decrease in tuberculosis case-fatality rates, although this was not statistically significant (RR 0·84, 95% CI 0·55-1·30). FHS associations were stronger among the poorest individuals for all the tuberculosis indicators. Community-based primary health care could strongly reduce tuberculosis morbidity and mortality and decrease the unequal distribution of the tuberculosis burden in the most vulnerable populations. During the current marked rise in global poverty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, investments in primary health care could help protect against the expected increases in tuberculosis incidence worldwide and contribute to the attainment of the End TB Strategy goals. TB Modelling and Analysis Consortium (Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), Wellcome Trust, and Brazilian Ministry of Health. For the Portuguese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

In recent years, calls to address gun violence through public health approaches have increased. However, securing funding for health-based community violence intervention models has remained a challenge. New actions suggest that this may be shifting. Upon taking office, the Biden administration announced a series of funding opportunities for these programs, which ranged from competitive grant programs to a proposed 8-year, $5 billion plan. Less publicized, but just as important, is the administration's announcement that Medicaid can be used to reimburse this work, specifically noting the eligibility of hospital-based violence intervention and prevention programs. For these programs, this creates a predictable and reliable funding source that has not existed to date. This integration of violence prevention programming in the traditional health care and financing systems represents a critical inflection point in the United States' shifting response to community violence. However, the decision to use this optional benefit lies with each state. States should strongly consider harnessing Medicaid as a wise investment to address the United States' gun violence epidemic. Economic and value-based evaluation, level IV.

The scientific literature sometimes considers music an abstract stimulus, devoid of explicit meaning, and at other times considers it a universal language. Here, individuals in three geographically distinct locations spanning two cultures performed a highly unconstrained task: they provided free-response descriptions of stories they imagined while listening to instrumental music. Tools from natural language processing revealed that listeners provide highly similar stories to the same musical excerpts when they share an underlying culture, but when they do not, the generated stories show limited overlap. These results paint a more complex picture of music's power: music can generate remarkably similar stories in listeners' minds, but the degree to which these imagined narratives are shared depends on the degree to which culture is shared across listeners. Thus, music is neither an abstract stimulus nor a universal language but has semantic affordances shaped by culture, requiring more sustained attention from psychology.

To assess the impacts of multiple chronic conditions (MCC) and frailty on 30-day post-discharge readmission and mortality among older patients with delayed discharge. We used a retrospective cohort of older patients in the Discharge Abstract Database (DAD) between 2004 and 2017 in Ontario, Canada. We extracted data on patients aged ≥ 65 who experienced delayed discharge during hospitalization (N = 353,106). We measured MCC and frailty using the Elixhauser Comorbidity Index (ECI) and the Hospital Frailty Risk Score (HFRS), respectively. We used multinomial logistic regression to model the main and interactive effects of MCC and frailty on the adverse outcomes. After adjusting for sex, discharge destination, urban/rural residency, wait time for alternative care, and socioeconomic status, the coexistence of MCC and high frailty increased the relative risk of 30-day mortality and readmission when compared to the references group, i.e., non-MCC patients with low-to-moderate frailty. Multimorbidity and frailty each provide unique information about adverse outcomes among older patients with delayed discharge but are most informative when examined in unison. To minimize the risk of adverse outcomes among older delayed discharge patients, discharge planning must be tailored to their concurrent multimorbidity and frailty status.

Whilst prevalence of youth smoking in middle and high income countries has decreased, inequality has prevailed. The introduction of legislation regulating tobacco use in public spaces varies across countries, impacting the tobacco control context. Thus reviewing our knowledge of how social networks may influence smoking differently within different contexts is required to facilitate the development of context-specific interventions. The search, conducted on 31st May 2019, included the following smoking-related terms; schools, adolescents, peers and social networks. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied throughout the title and abstract screening and full text screening. Quality assessment and synthesis followed. Studies were narratively synthesised to identify changes according to legislative context. This synthesis was conducted separately for findings relating to three categories: socioeconomic status; social selection and influence; and network position. Thirty studies were included. Differences in the relationship between network characteristics and smoking according to socioeconomic status were measured in five out of fifteen studies in Europe. Results varied across studies, with differences in network characteristics and their association with smoking varying both between schools of a differing and those of a similar socioeconomic composition. For studies conducted both before and after the introduction of comprehensive smoking legislation, the evidence for selection processes was more consistent than influence, which varied according to reciprocity. Findings showed that isolates were more likely to smoke and in-degree and out-degree centrality were related to smoking both before and after the introduction of legislation. The relationship between popularity and smoking was contingent on school level smoking prevalence in studies conducted before the introduction of legislation, but not after. Overall, effects according to socioeconomic status were underreported in the included studies and no consistent evidence of change after the introduction of a comprehensive smoking ban was observed. Further network analyses are required using more recent data to obtain a comprehensive understanding of how network processes may influence smoking differently according to socioeconomic status, and how adaptation could be used to enhance intervention effectiveness. International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) registration number: CRD42019137358 .

What is the topic of this review? More than half of all pregnancies in the UK are exposed to adversity linked to increased problems in pregnancy for mothers and adverse outcomes for their children, but we do not know the mechanism(s) underpinning these relationships. What advances does it highlight? Studies in mice prove that placental endocrine insufficiency driven by genetic manipulation of imprinted genes in the offspring can concurrently drive fetal growth restriction, alterations in maternal caregiving and aberrant behaviour in wild-type offspring exposed to an adverse environment. This suggests that placental endocrine insufficiency might contribute to the co-morbidity of low birth weight, maternal depression and neurodevelopmental disorders observed in human populations. Prenatal adversity, which is estimated to impact more than half of all pregnancies in the UK, compromises fetal growth and increases the chances of stillbirth, prematurity and infant mortality. Beyond these immediate and highly visible problems, infants that survive carry the invisible burden of increased risk of some of the most common and pervasive diseases that impact human populations. In utero exposure to depression and anxiety is one adversity that has been linked to these poorer outcomes, suggesting that maternal mood disorders drive the outcomes. However, recent studies in animal models suggest that both the maternal mood disorders and the detrimental outcomes for children could be the result of the same underlying placental pathology. In these studies, genetically wild-type rodent mothers exposed to placental endocrine insufficiency engaged in less pup-focused behaviours and less self-care. Genetically wild-type rodent offspring raised in this abnormal environment exhibited increased anxiety-like behaviours, with male offspring additionally exhibiting deficits in cognition and atypical social behaviour, with some evidence of depressive-like symptoms. This work establishes experimentally that placental endocrine insufficiency alone is sufficient to drive atypical behaviour in both mothers and their offspring. Although there are some data to suggest that this phenomenon is relevant to human pregnancy, considerably more work is required.

Cognitive Remediation Therapy (CRT) has been used mostly in adults. Randomised Controlled Trials (RCTs) in anorexia nervosa (AN) have shown that CRT enhances cognitive flexibility, abstract thinking and is associated with quality-of-life improvement. More research is needed in younger populations. A single-centre feasibility RCT with young people (YP) with AN was conducted in an inpatient setting. A secondary aim of this study was to explore patient satisfaction and parents' views towards CRT to inform further development and implementation of CRT in YP. YP were asked to complete a therapy feedback questionnaire and write a letter with their views on CRT. Parents were asked to complete a questionnaire exploring their perceptions of CRT. Data were analysed using inductive thematic and deductive content analysis. Both YP and parents valued CRT. Its engaging and pragmatic nature and its focus on thinking styles were perceived as a novel aspect. Parents expressed the need to be involved in the sessions to be able to continue to support their children at home. This study confirms previous qualitative findings. Should a fully powered RCT be conducted, it would be important to take into account these findings to further adapt the content of the CRT sessions to the YP needs and to consider their parents' involvement in the sessions, which could also increase the likelihood of parents' engagement in providing their feedback. Level I: Evidence obtained from one randomized controlled trial.

The institutionalization of evidence-informed health policy-making (EIHP) is complex and complicated. It is complex because it has many players and is complicated because its institutionalization will require many changes that will be challenging to make. Like many other issues, strengthening EIHP needs a road map, which should consider challenges and address them through effective, harmonized and contextualized strategies. This study aims to develop a road map for enhancing EIHP in Iran based on steps of planning. This study consisted of three phases: (1) identifying barriers to EIHP, (2) recognizing interventions and (3) measuring the use of evidence in Iran's health policy-making. A set of activities was established for conducting these, including foresight, systematic review and policy dialogue, to identify the current and potential barriers for the first phase. For the second phase, an evidence synthesis was performed through a scoping review, by searching the websites of benchmark institutions which had good examples of EIHP practices in order to extract and identify interventions, and through eight policy dialogues and two broad opinion polls to contextualize the list of interventions. Simultaneously, two qualitative-quantitative studies were conducted to design and use a tool for assessing EIHP in the third phase. We identified 97 barriers to EIHP and categorized them into three groups, including 35 barriers on the "generation of evidence" (push side), 41 on the "use of evidence" (pull side) and 21 on the "interaction between these two" (exchange side). The list of 41 interventions identified through evidence synthesis and eight policy dialogues was reduced to 32 interventions after two expert opinion polling rounds. These interventions were classified into four main strategies for strengthening (1) the education and training system (6 interventions), (2) the incentives programmes (7 interventions), (3) the structure of policy support organizations (4 interventions) and (4) the enabling processes to support EIHP (15 interventions). The policy options developed in the study provide a comprehensive framework to chart a path for strengthening the country's EIHP considering both global practices and the context of Iran. It is recommended that operational plans be prepared for road map interventions, and the necessary resources provided for their implementation. The implementation of the road map will require attention to the principles of good governance, with a focus on transparency and accountability. Video abstract.

As this is more of a reference article, I chose not to have an abstract similar to the paper I wrote in 2016 regarding flat feet in the military.

Task-sharing is a promising strategy to expand mental healthcare in low-resource settings, especially in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Research on how to best implement task-sharing mental health interventions, however, is hampered by an incomplete understanding of the barriers and facilitators to their implementation. This review aims to systematically identify implementation barriers and facilitators in evidence-based task-sharing mental health interventions using an implementation science lens, organizing factors across a novel, integrated implementation science framework. PubMed, PsychINFO, CINAHL, and Embase were used to identify English-language, peer-reviewed studies using search terms for three categories: "mental health," "task-sharing," and "LMIC." Articles were included if they: focused on mental disorders as the main outcome(s); included a task-sharing intervention using or based on an evidence-based practice; were implemented in an LMIC setting; and included assessment or data-supported analysis of barriers and facilitators. An initial conceptual model and coding framework derived from the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research and the Theoretical Domains Framework was developed and iteratively refined to create an integrated conceptual framework, the Barriers and Facilitators in Implementation of Task-Sharing Mental Health Interventions (BeFITS-MH), which specifies 37 constructs across eight domains: (I) client characteristics, (II) provider characteristics, (III) family and community factors, (IV) organizational characteristics, (V) societal factors, (VI) mental health system factors, (VII) intervention characteristics, and (VIII) stigma. Of the 26,935 articles screened (title and abstract), 192 articles underwent full-text review, yielding 37 articles representing 28 unique intervention studies that met the inclusion criteria. The most prevalent facilitators occur in domains that are more amenable to adaptation (i.e., the intervention and provider characteristics domains), while salient barriers occur in domains that are more challenging to modulate or intervene on-these include constructs in the client characteristics as well as the broader societal and structural levels of influence (i.e., the organizational, mental health system domains). Other notable trends include constructs in the family and community domains occurring as barriers and as facilitators roughly equally, and stigma constructs acting exclusively as barriers. Using the BeFITS-MH model we developed based on implementation science frameworks, this systematic review provides a comprehensive identification and organization of barriers and facilitators to evidence-based task-sharing mental health interventions in LMICs. These findings have important implications for ongoing and future implementation of this critically needed intervention strategy, including the promise of leveraging task-sharing intervention characteristics as sites of continued innovation, the importance of but relative lack of engagement with constructs in macro-level domains (e.g., organizational characteristics, stigma), and the need for more delineation of strategies for task-sharing mental health interventions that researchers and implementers can employ to enhance implementation in and across levels. PROSPERO CRD42020161357.

In recent decades, the literature on Social Network Analysis and health has experienced a significant increase. Disease transmission, health behavior, organizational networks, social capital, and social support are among the different health areas where Social Network Analysis has been applied. The current epidemiological trend is characterized by a progressive increase in the population's ageing and the incidence of long-term conditions. Thus, it seems relevant to highlight the importance of social support and care systems to guarantee the coverage of health and social needs within the context of acute illness, chronic disease, and disability for patients and their carers. Thus, the main aim is to identify, categorize, summarize, synthesize, and map existing knowledge, literature, and evidence about the use of Social Network Analysis to study social support and care in the context of illness and disability. This scoping review will be conducted following Arksey and O'Malley's framework with adaptations from Levac et al. and Joanna Briggs Institute's methodological guidance for conducting scoping reviews. We will search the following databases (from January 2000 onwards): PubMed, MEDLINE, Web of Science Core Collection, SCOPUS, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, PROSPERO, and DARE. Complementary searches will be conducted in selected relevant journals. Only articles related to social support or care in patients or caregivers in the context of acute illnesses, disabilities or long-term conditions will be considered eligible for inclusion. Two reviewers will screen all the citations, full-text articles, and abstract the data independently. A narrative synthesis will be provided with information presented in the main text and tables. The knowledge about the scientific evidence available in the literature, the methodological characteristics of the studies identified based on Social Network Analysis, and its main contributions will highlight the importance of health-related research's social and relational dimensions. These results will shed light on the importance of the structure and composition of social networks to provide social support and care and their impact on other health outcomes. It is anticipated that results may guide future research on network-based interventions that might be considered drivers to provide further knowledge in social support and care from a relational approach at the individual and community levels. Open Science Framework https://osf.io/dqkb5 .

Solidarity is a fundamental social value in many European countries, though its precise practical and theoretical meaning is disputed. In a health care context, I agree with European writers who take solidarity normatively to mean roughly equal access to effective health care for all. That is, solidarity includes a sense of justice. Given that, I will argue that precision medicine represents a potential weakening of solidarity, albeit not a unique weakening. Precision medicine includes 150 targeted cancer therapies (mostly for metastatic cancer), all of which are extraordinarily expensive. Our critical question: Must a commitment to solidarity as defined mean that all these targeted cancer therapies should be guaranteed to all within each country in the European Union, no matter the cost, no matter the degree of effectiveness? Such a commitment would imply that cancer was ethically special, rightfully commandeering unlimited resources. That in itself would undermine solidarity. I offer multiple examples of how current and future dissemination of these targeted cancer drugs threaten a commitment to solidarity. An alternative is to fund more cancer prevention efforts. However, that too proves a threat to solidarity. Solidarity, with or without a sense of justice, is too abstract a notion to address these challenges. Further, we need to accept that we can only hope to achieve "rough justice" and "supple solidarity." The precise practical meaning of these notions needs to be worked out through a fair and inclusive process of rational democratic deliberation, which is the real and practical foundation of just solidarity.

Young children spend a lot of time at home, yet there is little empirical research on how they spend that time and how it relates to developmental outcomes. Prior research suggests less-structured time-where children practice making choices and setting goals-may develop self-directed executive function in 6-year-olds. But less-structured time may be related to executive function for other reasons-for example, because it provides opportunities to acquire conceptual knowledge relevant to using executive function on tasks. We thus tested the possibility that less-structured time is also related to younger children's externally cued executive function. In this remote online study, caregivers of 93 3- to 5-year-olds indicated the amount of time their child was typically spending in various activities while at home during the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic. Activities were categorized as structured (primarily lessons with specific goals defined by adults or an app), less-structured (wide range of activities permitting choice and interaction with caregiver), passive (e.g., watching TV or videos), and primarily physical (e.g., bike riding). Children's externally cued executive function was assessed via the Dimensional Change Card Sort (DCCS). Time and variety in less-structured activities were related to successful switching on the DCCS, controlling for age, family income, caregiver education, and verbal knowledge. Caregivers were more involved in less-structured versus structured activities. Caregiver ratings of children's temperament were related to how children's time was spent. These findings suggest several new avenues for studying young children's activities at home and their relations with developmental outcomes. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/3aGmpSnjuCs.

The objective of this review article is to summarize literature data pertinent to potential excipient effects on intestinal drug permeability and transit. Despite the use of excipients in drug products for decades, considerable research efforts have been directed towards evaluating their potential effects on drug bioavailability. Potential excipient concerns stem from drug formulation changes (e.g., scale-up and post-approval changes, development of a new generic product). Regulatory agencies have established in vivo bioequivalence standards and, as a result, may waive the in vivo requirement, known as a biowaiver, for some oral products. Biowaiver acceptance criteria are based on the in vitro characterization of the drug substance and drug product using the Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS). Various regulatory guidance documents have been issued regarding BCS-based biowaivers, such that the current FDA guidance is more restrictive than prior guidance, specifically about excipient risk. In particular, sugar alcohols have been identified as potential absorption-modifying excipients. These biowaivers and excipient risks are discussed here. Graphical Abstract.

RATIONALE AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Horizontal violence has been defined as aggressive or hostile behaviour directed at an individual or between colleagues from the same working group. Measuring the prevalence of horizontal violence requires valid measures. To date, there has not been a review of the psychometric properties of available measurement tools for horizontal violence. A rapid review of the MEDLINE and BUSINESS EBSCO databases was conducted to identify studies testing the validity of any measure of horizontal violence in any workplace setting. Title and abstract and full-text screening, data extraction and quality appraisal were completed by two researchers working independently. The COnsensus-based Standards for the selection of health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) was used to determine the methodological quality of studies, including details of the psychometric properties of included papers. Fourteen papers reporting 17 studies were included in the review. Seven measures of horizontal violence (Civility Norms Questionnaire Brief; Negative Acts Questionnaire-Revised; Inventory of Violence and Psychological Harassment; Leyman Inventory Psychological Terror Mobbing of Single Cases of Harassment in Employees Relations; Shortened Negative Acts Questionnaire-Revised; Uncivil Workplace Behaviour Questionnaire) were identified. Most included studies were methodologically robust. Six measures had strong psychometric properties except for the Mobbing of Single Cases of Harassment in Employees Relations (MSCH) where key information about psychometric properties was not reported. We identified six measures of horizontal violence that had good psychometric properties. The Negative Acts Questionnaire-Revised has been most extensively tested in different settings but is not necessarily a more precise measure than others.

To identify major research topics and exhibit trends in these topics in 15 health services research, health policy, and health economics journals over 2 decades. The study sample of 35,159 abstracts (1999-2020) were collected from PubMed for 15 journals. The study used a 3-phase approach for text analyses: (1) developing the corpus of 40,618 references from PubMed (excluding 5459 of those without abstract or author information); (2) preprocessing and generating the term list using natural language processing to eliminate irrelevant textual data and identify important terms and phrases; (3) analyzing the preprocessed text data using latent semantic analysis, topic analyses, and multiple correspondence analysis. Application of analyses generated 16 major research topics: (1) implementation/intervention science; (2) HIV and women's health; (3) outcomes research and quality; (4) veterans/military studies; (5) provider/primary-care interventions; (6) geriatrics and formal/informal care; (7) policies and health outcomes; (8) medication treatment/therapy; (9) patient interventions; (10) health insurance legislation and policies; (11) public health policies; (12) literature reviews; (13) cost-effectiveness and economic evaluation; (14) cancer care; (15) workforce issues; and (16) socioeconomic status and disparities. The 2-dimensional map revealed that some journals have stronger associations with specific topics. Findings were not consistent with previous studies based on user perceptions. Findings of this study can be used by the stakeholders of health services research, policy, and economics to develop future research agendas, target journal submissions, and generate interdisciplinary solutions by examining overlapping journals for particular topics.

To examine the associations between adverse childhood experiences (ACE) and the risk of hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy in a national sample of women in England. Retrospective cohort study. A stratified random sample of households across England. 2648 women aged ≥55 years in 2007 from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA) were included in the bilateral oophorectomy analyses and 2622 in the hysterectomy analyses. Logistic and multinomial logistic regression analyses of the associations between categories of the ACE summary score (0, 1, 2, ≥3 ACE), eight individual ACE, and hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy. 615 women had undergone hysterectomy and 259 women bilateral oophorectomy. We found graded associations between the summary ACE score and risk of hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy. In the fully adjusted model, compared with women with no ACE, those with ≥3 ACE had double the odds of hysterectomy (odds ratio [OR] 2.01, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.30-3.11) and more than double the odds of bilateral oophorectomy (OR 2.61, 95% CI 1.54-4.42). The exclusion of women with cancer history made the associations stronger, especially in women who underwent hysterectomy at age <40 years or bilateral oophorectomy at age ≤44 years. Several individual ACE were positively associated with both outcomes. ACE are associated with increased risk of hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy. Individual-level covariates did not explain these associations. Our findings highlight the importance of a life course approach to understanding surgical menopause and add to our knowledge of the societal and public health impact of ACE. Adverse childhood experiences are associated with increased risk of hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy in a national sample of women in England.

As simulation matures, it is critical to develop pathways for researchers. A recent analysis, however, demonstrates a low conversion rate between abstract and peer-reviewed journal publication in our field. The International Network for Simulation-based Pediatric Innovation, Research, and Education has used the ALERT Presentation process for the past decade as a means of accelerating research. In this study, we analyze the scholarly products attributable to ALERT Presentations. Surveys were distributed to all International Network for Simulation-based Pediatric Innovation, Research, and Education Advanced Look Exploratory Research Template (ALERT) Presentation first authors from January 2011 through January 2020. Presenters were asked to provide information on abstracts, grants, journal publications, and book chapters related to their ALERT Presentation, as well as basic demographic information. A structured literature search was conducted for those ALERT Presentations whose authors did not return a survey. The resulting database was descriptively analyzed, and statistical correlations between demographic variables and scholarship were examined. One hundred sixty-five new ALERT presentations were presented over 10 years. We identified 361 associated scholarly works (170 conference abstracts, 125 peer-reviewed journal publications, 65 grants, and 1 book chapter). Sixty-one percent (101 of 165) of ALERT Presentations produced at least 1 item of scholarship, and 59% (34 of 58) of ALERT Presentations that resulted in at least 1 abstract also led to at least 1 peer-reviewed journal article. Presenter gender was associated with likelihood of journal publication. The ALERT Presentation process is an effective approach for facilitating the development of projects that result in disseminated scholarship. Wider adoption may benefit other simulation and education research networks.

Youth suicide is a significant public health priority, and is the second leading cause of death among young people between 15 and 29 years of age. An emerging intervention in suicide prevention programming with youth is peer support. Although increasingly used in other settings, the evidence for peer support interventions in youth suicide prevention remains nascent. This article presents a protocol for a scoping review aimed at systematically mapping the current evidence on peer support for youth suicide prevention. Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review framework will guide the review methods. The search strategy will be developed with guidance from a health sciences librarian. Multiple databases (Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, Cumulative Index for Nursing and Allied Health Literature) and grey literature will be identified using terms related to peer support and youth suicide prevention. Publication date restrictions will not be applied. All identified records of published literature will be collated and uploaded to a systematic review management software, Covidence, for review and selection. Screening will be completed in duplicate by two reviewers using predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Conflicts during screening will be resolved by a third reviewer. The title and abstract screening and full-text review will be completed in Covidence. Two reviewers will complete data extraction from the selected records, using a tailored extraction form. Screening and data extraction will be completed between January and April 2021. A narrative summary will be completed to synthesise key findings as well as contextual information about the use of peer support interventions in youth suicide prevention programming. The results will be disseminated through a community research report, presentations of findings at relevant conferences and academic publications of the scoping review protocol and results. The data used for this scoping review will be derived from published resources; therefore, ethics approval is not required for this study.

Risk-adjustment models are widely used methodological approaches within the healthcare industry to measure hospital performance and quality of care. However, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) do not fully adjust for socioeconomic status (SES) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) models. A review and evidence synthesis was conducted to identify associations of SES factors with hospital readmission and mortality in AMI patients. Multiple electronic databases were queried to identify studies assessing risk for AMI-related mortality or hospital readmissions and SES factors. Identified studies were screened by title and abstract. Full-text reviews followed for articles meeting the inclusion criteria, including quality assessments. Data were extracted from all included studies, and evidence synthesis was performed to identify associations between SES factors and outcome variables. Ten studies were included in the review. One study showed that Black patients had higher AMI-related readmission rates compared to White patients (mean difference 4.3% [SD 1.4%], p < 0.001). Another study showed that income inequality was associated with increased risk of AMI-related readmissions (RR 1.18 [95% CI], 1.13-1.23). One study found that unemployed individuals experienced significantly greater rates of AMI-related mortality than those working full-time (HR 2.08, 1.51-2.87). According to another study, lack of health insurance was associated with worse rates for in-hospital AMI-related mortality (OR 1.77, 1.72-1.82). Based on one study, AMI-related mortality was higher in those with <8 years of education compared to those with >16 years (17.5% vs. 3.5%, p < 0.0001). Five of six studies found a significant association between ZIP code/neighborhood/location and AMI-related readmission or mortality. Race, ZIP code/neighborhood/location, insurance status, income/poverty, and education comprise SES factors found to be associated with AMI-related mortality and/or readmission outcomes. Including these SES factors in future updates of CMS's risk-adjusted models has the potential to provide more appropriate compensation mechanisms to hospitals.

Analyze the performance of the oriented oral health care network from its implementation, in 2004 to 2020, according to publications on the subject. This is a research with a methodological description of metasynthesis. The searches resulted in 600 complete publications (586 in the first search and another 14 in the second search), according to the established criteria. 539 articles were excluded: 151 after duplication analysis, 236 after reading the title, 45 by type of publication and 107 after reading the abstract, as they did not fit the research theme. Thus, 61 original publications and another 29 publications in snowball sampling were selected and analyzed, totaling 90 publications. From this selection, we chose to use the model proposed by the Projeto de Avaliações de Desempenho de Sistemas de Saúde (PROADESS - Health Systems Performance Assessment Project). The study will use its guiding principles on the dimension "Health Services Performance". The analyzed set allowed us to identify that the way the Brazilian State organizes and finances oral health care made it possible to expand access and the number of procedures performed, but not the creation of an effective comprehensive care network, after more than a decade of implementation of Brasil Sorridente (Smiling Brazil).

Despite gendered dimensions of COVID-19 becoming increasingly apparent, the impact of COVID-19 and other respiratory epidemics on women and girls' sexual and reproductive health (SRH) have yet to be synthesized. This review uses a reproductive justice framework to systematically review empirical evidence of the indirect impacts of respiratory epidemics on SRH. We searched MEDLINE and CINAHL for original, peer-reviewed articles related to respiratory epidemics and women and girls' SRH through May 31, 2021. Studies focusing on various SRH outcomes were included, however those exclusively examining pregnancy, perinatal-related outcomes, and gender-based violence were excluded due to previously published systematic reviews on these topics. The review consisted of title and abstract screening, full-text screening, and data abstraction. Twenty-four studies met all eligibility criteria. These studies emphasized that COVID-19 resulted in service disruptions that effected access to abortion, contraceptives, HIV/STI testing, and changes in sexual behaviors, menstruation, and pregnancy intentions. These findings highlight the need to enact policies that ensure equitable, timely access to quality SRH services for women and girls, despite quarantine and distancing policies. Research gaps include understanding how COVID-19 disruptions in SRH service provision, access and/or utilization have impacted underserved populations and those with intersectional identities, who faced SRH inequities notwithstanding an epidemic. More robust research is also needed to understand the indirect impact of COVID-19 and epidemic control measures on a wider range of SRH outcomes (e.g., menstrual disorders, fertility services, gynecologic oncology) in the long-term.

A tailored immunization program is deemed more successful in encouraging vaccination. Understanding the profiles of vaccine hesitancy constructs in nurses can help policymakers in devising such programs. Encouraging vaccination in nurses is an important step in building public confidence in the upcoming COVID-19 and influenza vaccination campaigns. Using a person-centered approach, this study aimed to reveal the profiles of the 5C psychological constructs of vaccine hesitancy (confidence, complacency, constraints, calculation, and collective responsibility) among Hong Kong nurses. Cross-sectional online survey. With the promotion of a professional nursing organization, we invited Hong Kong nurses to complete an online survey between mid-March and late April 2020 during the COVID-19 outbreak. 1,193 eligible nurses (mean age = 40.82, SD = 10.49; with 90.0% being female) were included in the analyses. In the online survey, we asked the invited nurses to report their demographics, COVID-19-related work demands (including the supply of personal protective equipment, work stress, and attitudes towards workplace infection control policies), the 5C vaccine hesitancy components, seasonal influenza vaccine uptake history, and the COVID-19 vaccine uptake intention. Latent profile analysis was employed to identify distinct vaccine hesitancy antecedent subgroups. Results revealed five profiles, including "believers" (31%; high confidence, collective responsibility; low complacency, constraint), "skeptics" (11%; opposite to the believers), "outsiders" (14%; low calculation, collective responsibility), "contradictors" (4%; high in all 5C constructs), and "middlers" (40%; middle in all 5C constructs). Believers were less educated, reported more long-term illnesses, greater work stress, higher perceived personal protective equipment sufficiency, and stronger trust in government than skeptics. They were older and had higher perceived personal protective equipment sufficiency than middlers. Also, believers were older and had greater work stress than outsiders. From the highest to the lowest on vaccination uptake and intention were believers and contradictors, then middlers and outsiders, and finally skeptics. Different immunization programs can be devised based on the vaccine hesitancy profiles and their predictors. Despite both profiles being low in vaccination uptake and intention, our results distinguished between outsiders and skeptics regarding their different levels of information-seeking engagement. The profile structure reveals the possibilities in devising tailored interventions based on their 5C characteristics. The current data could serve as the reference for the identification of individual profile membership and future profiling studies. Future endeavor is needed to examine the generalizability of the profile structure in other populations and across different study sites. Tweetable abstract: Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy profiles of Hong Kong nurses (believers, sceptics, outsiders, contradictors and middlers) highlight the importance of tailored vaccine campaigns.

The contribution of alcohol to the large burden of oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in east Africa remains uncertain and difficult to assess owing to complex consumption patterns of traditional and commercial drinks. We aimed to assess whether alcohol drinking, overall and at specific intake levels, contributes to ESCC risk in east Africa. We did a hospital-based case-control study in Kenya, Tanzania, and Malawi, which included comprehensive assessment of a variety of locally consumed alcohol that we used to classify drinkers as exclusively low alcohol-by-volume (ABV; <30% ABV) drinkers or drinkers of some high-ABV drinks, as well as the number of drinks consumed, average weekly ethanol intake, and the contribution of each drink type to overall ethanol consumption. Cases were patients aged 18 years and older with incident primary ESCC, confirmed histologically for the majority of cases, and a clinical diagnosis for the remainder. Controls were frequency-matched on age and sex in a 1:1 ratio with cases. The controls were recruited from the same hospitals as cases and included outpatients, inpatients, and hospital visitors who did not have cancer or any other digestive disease. Consenting participants took part in face-to-face interviews in which they were asked whether they had ever consumed alcohol (the primary exposure variable); those who had were asked follow-up questions about their consumption habits for different alcoholic drinks. 1279 cases and 1346 controls were recruited between Aug 5, 2013, and May 24, 2020, including 430 cases and 440 controls from Kenya, 310 cases and 313 controls from Tanzania, and 539 cases and 593 controls from Malawi. 65 (4·8%) of 1344 cases were excluded. Consistent positive associations with ESCC risk were found for ever having consumed alcohol in Kenyan men and Tanzanian men, and for daily number of drinks and estimated ethanol intake in Kenya, Tanzania (both sexes) and Malawian women. Corresponding population-attributable fractions of ESCC for those reporting ever drinking alcohol (vs never drinking) were 65% (95% CI 52-78) in Kenyan men and 23% (<1-45) in Kenyan women, and 56% (95% CI 36-76) in Tanzanian men and 5% (0-42) in Tanzanian women. Increased risk and population-attributable fractions were almost entirely due to risks in high-ABV drinkers. Alcohol appears to be a substantial contributor to ESCC risk in east Africa, particularly among men, and a large fraction of ESCC could be prevented by cessation or reduction of alcohol consumption. Future studies should consider independent ascertainment of alcohol intake to assess the potential of under-reporting in Malawi. US National Cancer Institute, Wereld Kanker Onderzoek Fonds, and the IARC Environment and Lifestyle Epidemiology Branch. For the Swahili and Chichewa translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

What is the central question of this study? It is generally recognized that social isolation is associated with physical inactivity, but is social isolation a direct determinant of decreased physical activity? What is the main finding and its importance? We conducted a within-subjects experiment with the aid of a body-implantable actimeter. Our results clearly demonstrated that social isolation decreased home-cage activity in mice. This might have resulted from increased immobility and decreased vigorous activity, suggesting that avoidance of social isolation is important to prevention of physical inactivity. An inactive lifestyle can have a negative impact on physiological and mental health. Social isolation is associated with physical inactivity; however, it remains uncertain whether social isolation is a direct determinant of decreased physical activity. Hence, we assessed whether social isolation decreases home-cage activity using a within-subjects design and examined the effects of social isolation on hippocampal neurogenesis in mice. This study used a body-implantable actimeter called nanotag, which enabled us to measure home-cage activity despite housing the mice in groups. Initially, we examined the influence of the intraperitoneal implantation of nanotag on home-cage activity. Although nanotag implantation decreased home-cage activity temporarily, at 7 days postimplantation the activity recovered to the same level as that of control (non-implanted) mice, suggesting that implantation of nanotag does not have a negative influence on home-cage activity if mice undergo a 1 week recovery period after implantation. In the main experiment, after the 1 week baseline measurement performed with mice in group housing, the mice were placed in a group or in isolation. Home-cage activity was measured for an additional 4 weeks. Home-cage activity in isolated mice during the dark period decreased by 26% from pre-intervention to the last week of intervention. Furthermore, the reduction in the number of 5 min epochs during which the activity count exceeded 301 (an index of vigorous activity) was significantly larger for isolated mice. Contrary to expectations, social isolation did not impair hippocampal neurogenesis. Our results demonstrate that social isolation is a direct determinant of decreased physical activity, possibly because of reduced vigorous physical activity.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major threat to public health, especially in low-income and lower middle-income countries, where resources for treating patients with advanced CKD are scarce. Although early CKD identification and intervention hold promise for reducing the burden of CKD and risk factors, it remains unclear if an uniform strategy can be applicable across all income groups. The aim of this scoping review is to synthesise available evidence on early CKD identification programmes in all world regions and income groups. The study will also identify efforts that have been made to use interventions and implementation of early identification programmes for CKD across countries and income groups. This review will be guided by the methodological framework for conducting scoping studies developed by Arksey and O'Malley. Empirical (Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, CINAHL, ISI Web of Science and PsycINFO) and grey literature references will be searched to identify studies on CKD screening, early identification and interventions across all populations. Two reviewers will independently screen references in consecutive stages of title/abstract screening and then full-text screening. We will use a general descriptive overview, tabular summaries and content analysis on extracted data. The findings from our planned scoping review will enable us to identify items in early identification programmes that can be used in developing screening toolkits for CKD. We will disseminate our findings using traditional approaches that include open-access peer-reviewed publication, scientific presentations and a white paper (call to action) report. Ethical approval will not be required for this scoping review as the data will be extracted from already published studies.

To perform the first systematic review of all available GAS publications across all procedures to assess outcomes reported in the literature and the methods used for outcome assessment. Assessment of GAS results is complex and multidimensional, involving not only complication rates but also anatomic (eg, vaginal depth), functional (eg, urinary), and psychosocial outcomes. A fully comprehensive aggregation of all prior research would offer an essential cornerstone for continued progress. A systematic review was performed after PRISMA guidelines to identify all outcomes measures in GAS cohorts, including patient-centered outcomes, complications, and functional outcomes. Data were aggregated to assess pooled rates of complications, satisfaction, and other outcomes. Overall, 15,186 references were identified, 4162 papers advanced to abstract review, and 1826 underwent full-text review. After review, there were 406 GAS cohort publications, including 171 vaginoplasty, 82 phalloplasty, 16 metoidioplasty, 23 oophorectomy/vaginectomy, and 21 with multiple procedures.Although 68.7% of genitoplasty papers addressed patient-centered outcomes, only 1.0% used metrics validated in the transgender population. Forty-three different outcome instruments were used. No instrument was used in more than 15% of published series and 38 were used in only 1 or 2 publications. Our review found high patient satisfaction for genital procedures but little concordance between study methods, with almost 90% of patient-focused outcome metrics appearing only once or twice. Standardization of outcome instruments and measurement methods through patient-inclusive, multidisciplinary consensus efforts is the essential next step for quality improvement. As GAS continues to mature, building on current foundations with the goal of improving both surgical and patient-reported outcomes is essential.

Individuals with serious mental illness are overrepresented in the criminal justice system. Research has found that interventions targeting risk factors for recidivism (i.e., criminogenic risks) reduce justice involvement in the general correctional population. However, more needs to be learned regarding use of these interventions among individuals with serious mental illness. To this end, this systematic review synthesized research on interventions that target criminogenic risk factors and are delivered to justice-involved individuals with serious mental illness. A systematic search of six computerized bibliographic databases from inception to 2021 yielded 8,360 potentially relevant studies. Title and abstract screening, full-text reviews, and data extraction were performed independently, and discrepancies were resolved through discussion. To identify additional articles meeting inclusion criteria, experts in the field were contacted, and reference-harvesting techniques were used. Study quality was assessed with the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. Twenty-one studies were identified that evaluated nine interventions delivered to justice-involved individuals with serious mental illness. All identified programs targeted criminogenic risk factors, were group based, and used cognitive-behavioral strategies. Study quality was moderate to high. Interventions were associated with improvements in recidivism, violence, and criminogenic risk factors. This review is the first to evaluate interventions targeting criminogenic risks among justice-involved individuals with serious mental illness. Findings suggest that outcomes associated with these interventions are promising. Given the overrepresentation of persons with serious mental illness in the criminal justice system, these findings provide an important step toward identifying services that curb justice involvement in this population.

The majority of the populations in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) are encountering the double burden of malnutrition (DBM): the coexistence of both undernutrition and overnutrition sequalae. With DBM being a new phenomenon in research, little is known about its aetiology, operational definitions and risk factors influencing its manifestation. The proposed scoping review is aimed at mapping literature with regard to the DBM phenomenon among preschool children and women of reproductive age in LMICs who are among the most high-risk groups to encounter DBM. A comprehensive literature search will be conducted in the following electronic databases: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, CINAHL, LILACS and ProQuest Dissertations and Thesis Global. Additionally, searches in other government and institutional sources (WHO website and university repositories) and forward and backward citation tracking of seminal articles will also be done. Two reviewers will independently conduct title and abstract screening and full-text screening. Similarly, data extraction and coding will independently be done by two reviewers. Information extracted from included literature will be analysed qualitatively using thematic analysis approach and reported as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews guidelines. Ethical approval is not required for this study because the review is based on literature from publicly available sources. The dissemination of our findings will be done through presentations in relevant conferences and publication in a peer-reviewed journal.

Individuals with foetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) are estimated to be 19 times more likely to encounter the criminal justice system (CJS) in comparison to individuals without FASD. During encounters with the CJS, investigative interviews are employed to obtain accurate information from suspects, victims or witnesses of crime. A systematic search using PRISMA guidelines was performed to identify empirical studies published that have explored the questioning of the FASD population within the CJS and the vulnerabilities of FASD-impacted individuals during investigative interviewing. A total of 383 studies were identified from the databases searched and 7 further studies were identified from Google Scholar. After deduplication, abstract and title screening, the full text of 23 studies were assessed for inclusion and 5 were included in the narrative synthesis of results. Two papers were empirical studies focussed on the performance of FASD-impacted individuals during investigative interviewing. Whilst the first study found the FASD population susceptible to suggestions, the second (a case study), identified the ploys employed during investigative interviewing to obtain a confession. Three papers studied the wider vulnerabilities of FASD-impacted individuals and found diminished psycho-legal abilities, increased risk of recidivism and biological, psychological and social factors that render FASD-impacted individuals vulnerable to CJS encounters. Despite the greater likelihood of CJS encounters, the result of this review highlights the slim evidence base useful to establish the vulnerabilities of FASD-impacted individuals within the CJS.

Child sexual abuse is the most challenging type of abuse to detect. Moreover, there are difficulties in gathering evidence, apprehending, and prosecuting the perpetrator. The trial is often based on the contradiction of the suspect's and the child's statements. The aim of this study is to identify the difficulties encountered during the entire trial in cases of sexual assault against the child in Turkey starting from the investigation phase, to determine the auditability of taking a child's statement, which is the basis of the judicial decision, and to evaluate the effectiveness of the principles set by the Supreme Court, which oversees the local court decision. It was determined that the trial was continued on abstract allegations, the Supreme Court's approval of the decision of the local court was based on "the slander of a person who wants to harm another person over the sexuality of a minor is contrary to the usual flow of life." Furthermore, the reason wassuggestive of subjective interpretations rather than material truths. This study, which is a master's thesis, has been submitted to the Turkish Ministry of Justice.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Frontline forensic mental health staff often face challenges when providing recovery-orientated care, as they must balance between caring for the forensic psychiatric patient and at the same time ensuring safety and security for all other patients and staff at the ward. Research shows that balancing between care and custody in everyday clinical practice is possible, but more practical nursing studies showing ways of balancing power relations are needed to guide clinical practice. Online video games are increasingly recognized as promising new tools to promote social relations, establish competencies and re-articulate power relations in therapeutic environments. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper provides insights into how using online video gaming interventions may influence the establishment of social power relations of staff and forensic psychiatric patients. It adds to existing research by providing a conceptual way to study and understand how mental health nurses may balance between care and custody, delivering care to accommodate patients' needs without compromising safety and security at the ward. This study answers a call in current research by providing qualified knowledge regarding the use of online video gaming to build and sustain therapeutic relations in mental health care. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Our paper suggests that balancing between care and custody is possible by using online video gaming interventions in forensic psychiatry. It moreover provides practice-close knowledge that may inspire and guide clinical mental health nurses to further develop online video gaming interventions in mental health care for the benefit of their patients. ABSTRACT: Introduction In recovery-oriented care, forensic psychiatric nurses must engage in care relationships with forensic psychiatric patients (FPs) whilst focussing on ward security. Online video games (OVGs) may provide a platform for negotiating power and social relations. Studies showing how OVG interventions may influence power balances in forensic psychiatric care are needed to guide clinical practice. Aim Our aim was to study how power relations were articulated between FPs and staff in an OVG intervention in a Danish forensic psychiatric ward. Method Data consist of three months of observational data and interviews with three staff members and six patients. We used sociologist Pierre Bourdieu's framework of field, power and capital to analyze data. Results The OVG intervention consisted of two power fields, "in-game" and "over-game." In-game concerned the practice of gaming. Over-game described the organization of the gaming intervention. Specific logics, skills and symbolic capitals drove power in each field. Discussion Power in-game was open to FPs and staff, leading to symmetric power relations. Power over-game was open to staff only, resulting in asymmetrical power relations. Implications for practice Online video game interventions may facilitate power balancing in forensic psychiatry. These insights may guide the development of new OVG interventions for patients and nurses in mental health care.

Guided by the evolutionary perspective and specialization hypothesis, this multi-method (behavioral observation, questionnaire) longitudinal study adopted a person-centered approach to explore children's problem-solving skills within different contexts. Participants were 235 young children (M age = 2.97 years at the first measurement occasion) and their parents assessed in two measurement occasions spaced one year apart. Latent profile analyses revealed four unique problem-solving profiles, capturing variability in children's performance, and observed engagement in abstract vs. reward-oriented (RO) problem-solving tasks at wave one. The four profiles included: (a) a high-abstract-high-RO, (b) a high-abstract-low-RO, (c) a low-abstract-high-RO, and (d) a low-abstract-low-RO classes. Contextual risks within and outside families during wave one, including greater neighborhood crime, impoverishment, and observed lower maternal sensitivity were linked to the elevated likelihood for children from the two profiles with low-abstract problem-solving, particularly those from the low-abstract-high-RO problem-solving profile. Furthermore, child problem-solving profiles were linked to meaningful differences in their socioemotional functioning one year later. The present finding has important implications in revealing the heterogeneity in child problem-solving within different contexts that responded differently to contextual risks. In addition, this study advanced the understanding of the developmental implications of child problem-solving capacity.

Myoelectric prosthesis users typically do not receive immediate feedback from their device. They must be able to consistently produce distinct muscle activations in the absence of augmented feedback. In previous experiments, abstract decoding has provided real-time visual feedback for closed loop control. It is unclear if the performance in those experiments was due to short-term adaptation or motor learning. To test if similar performance could be reached without short-term adaptation, we trained participants with a delayed feedback paradigm. Feedback was delayed until after the ~1.5 s trial was completed. Three participants trained for five days in their home environments, completing a cumulative total of 4920 trials. Participants became highly accurate while receiving no real-time feedback of their control input. They were also able to retain performance gains across days. This strongly suggests that abstract decoding with delayed feedback facilitates motor learning, enabling four class control without immediate feedback.

To determine the association between ethnic group and risk of postpartum haemorrhage in women giving birth. Cohort study. Maternity units in England. A total of 981 801 records of births between 1 April 2015 and 31 March 2017 in a national clinical database. Multivariable logistic regression analyses with multiple imputation to account for missing data and robust standard errors to account for clustering within hospitals. Postpartum haemorrhage of ≥1500 ml (PPH). A total of 28 268 (2.9%) births were complicated by PPH. Risks were higher in women from black (3.9%) and other (3.5%) ethnic backgrounds. Following adjustment for maternal and fetal characteristics, and care at birth, there was evidence of an increased risk of PPH in women from all ethnic minority groups, with the largest increase seen in black women (adjusted OR 1.54, 95% CI 1.45-1.63). The increase in risk was robust to sensitivity analyses, which included changing the outcome to PPH of ≥3000 ml. In England, women from ethnic minority backgrounds have an increased risk of PPH, when maternal, fetal and birth characteristics are taken into account. Factors contributing to this increased risk need further investigation. Perinatal care for women from ethnic minority backgrounds should focus on preventative measures to optimise maternal outcomes. Women with an ethnic minority background giving birth in England have an increased risk of postpartum haemorrhage, even when characteristics of the mother, the baby and the care received are taken into account.

Consensus Auditory Perceptual Evaluation of Voice (CAPE-V) is a widely used perceptual evaluation scale for voice assessment. It is adapted in many regional languages worldwide. This systematic review will help critically evaluate the methodologies used to adapt and establish CAPE-V as a valid and reliable tool. Authors reviewed literature in search engines (Scopus, Google Scholar, PubMed) to identify studies published in English between 2002-2020. The CAPE-V translated and adapted for linguistic or cultural variations were included for the review. The studies were compiled using the Mendeley Reference Manager and screened for title/abstract before shortlisting the studies. The initial database had 3459 search results and after duplicates removal, 1535 articles were analysed. Thirteen studies were narrowed based on title/abstract screening. A final of ten studies were selected for the review. This review provided a comprehensive understanding of the challenges encountered during cross-cultural adaptation and will help future researchers choose a suitable adaptation method.

Mobility restriction is the most effective measure to control the spread of infectious disease at its early stage, especially if a cure and vaccine are not available. When control of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) required strong precautionary measures, lockdowns were necessarily implemented in countries around the globe. Public health risk communication about the justification and scope of a lockdown was challenging as it involved a conflict between solidarity and individual liberty and a trade-off between various values across groups with different socioeconomic statuses. In the study, we examined public responses to the government-announced "circuit breaker" (a local term for lockdown) at four-time points in Singapore: (1) entry, (2) extension, (3) exit of lockdown 'phase 1' and (4) entry of lockdown 'phase 2'. We randomly collected 100 comments from the relevant articles on new organisations' Facebook and Instagram pages and conducted preliminary coding. Later, additional random 20 comments were collected to check the data saturation. Content analysis was focused on identifying themes that emerged from the responses across the four-time points. At the entry, public support for the lockdown was prevalent; yet most responses were abstract with uncertainty. At six weeks of lockdown, initial public responses with uncertainty turned into salient narratives of their lived experiences and hardship with lockdown and unmasking of societal weaknesses caused by COVID-19. At the entry to phase 2, responses were centred on social-economic impact, disparity, and lockdown burnout with the contested notion of continuing solidarity. A temporal pattern was seen in the rationalisation of the lockdown experience from trust, anxiety, attribution of pandemic and lockdown, blaming of non-compliant behaviours, and confusion. The findings indicated a temporal evolution of public responses from solidarity, attribution of the sustained pandemic, increasing ambiguity towards strong precautionary measures, concerns about economic hardship and mental well-being to worsened social vulnerability, where the government's restrictive policies were questioned with anxiety and confusion. Public health risk communication in response to COVID-19 should be transparent and address health equity and social justice to enhance individual and collective responsibility in protecting the public from the pandemic.

An essential aspect of human cognition is supported by a rich reservoir of abstract concepts without tangible external referents (e.g., "honor", "relationship", "direction"). While decades of research showed that the neural organization of conceptual knowledge referring to concrete words respects domains of evolutionary salience and sensorimotor attributes, the organization principles of abstract word meanings are poorly understood. Here, we provide neuropsychological evidence for a domain (sociality) and attribute (emotion) structure in abstract word processing. Testing 34 brain-damaged patients on a word-semantic judgment task, we observed double dissociations between social and nonsocial words and a single dissociation of sparing of emotional (relative to non-emotional) words. The lesion profiles of patients with specific dissociations suggest potential neural correlates positively or negatively associated with each dimension. These results unravel a general domain-attribute architecture of word meanings and highlight the roles of the social domain and the emotional attribute in the non-object semantic space.

Important but frequently overlooked childhood trauma outcomes can manifest later in patients' lives and include neurophysiological influences on language perception and expression, memory, attention, abstract reasoning, emotional regulation, and executive functioning. Therefore, when interacting with patients experiencing homelessness, mental illnesses, and substance use disorders, clinicians should adopt a trauma-informed approach to generating deeper understandings of patients' neurobiological makeup and psychosocial histories, especially when discussing interventions and during informed consent.

Reports an error in "Children's self-blame appraisals about their mothers' depressive symptoms and risk for internalizing symptoms" by Chrystyna D. Kouros, Sharyl E. Wee, Chelsea N. Carson and Naomi V. Ekas (

The burden of self-injury among offenders undergoing inpatient treatment in forensic psychiatry is substantial. This exploratory study aims to add to the previously sparse literature on the correlates of self-injury in inpatient forensic patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders (SSD). Employing a sample of 356 inpatients with SSD treated in a Swiss forensic psychiatry hospital, patient data on 512 potential predictor variables were retrospectively collected via file analysis. The dataset was examined using supervised machine learning to distinguish between patients who had engaged in self-injurious behavior during forensic hospitalization and those who had not. Based on a combination of ten variables, including psychiatric history, criminal history, psychopathology, and pharmacotherapy, the final machine learning model was able to discriminate between self-injury and no self-injury with a balanced accuracy of 68% and a predictive power of AUC = 71%. Results suggest that forensic psychiatric patients with SSD who self-injured were younger both at the time of onset and at the time of first entry into the federal criminal record. They exhibited more severe psychopathological symptoms at the time of admission, including higher levels of depression and anxiety and greater difficulty with abstract reasoning. Of all the predictors identified, symptoms of depression and anxiety may be the most promising treatment targets for the prevention of self-injury in inpatient forensic patients with SSD due to their modifiability and should be further substantiated in future studies.

We assessed factors associated with the frequency and contents of antenatal care (ANC) in remote rural China, including the province of residence and individual-level factors. Survey-based cross-sectional study. Five provinces in remote rural China: Guizhou, Hunan, Jilin, Ningxia and Shaanxi. A cohort of 3918 women with a live birth in 2009-2016. Poisson regression. ANC frequency: five or more visits, starting in the first trimester. ANC contents: coverage of six care components and overuse of ultrasound. Three-quarters (72.9%) of women had five or more ANC visits, starting in the first trimester; 68.8% received all six care components and 94.5% had three or more ultrasounds. Only 30.9% of women sought ANC from township hospitals, paying between $3.80 and $25.80 per visit. ANC frequency and contents were associated with the socio-economic characteristics of the women, but provincial effects were much greater, even after adjusting for individual factors. Women living in Guizhou and Ningxia, the two poorest provinces, with high proportions of ethnic minorities, were particularly underserved. Compared with women in Shaanxi, women in Guizhou were 33% (adjusted RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.61-0.74) less likely to receive five or more ANC visits, starting in the first trimester; women in Ningxia were 17% less likely (adjusted RR 0.83, 95% CI 0.76-0.90) to receive all six care components. The province of residence was a stronger predictor of ANC frequency and contents than the individual characteristics of women in China, suggesting that strengthening the decentralised system of the financing and organisation of ANC at the province level is crucial for achieving success. Future efforts are warranted to engage subregional administrations. The province of residence was a stronger predictor of ANC frequency and contents than the individual characteristics of women.

We sought to determine how many abstracts presented at the 2012 and 2014 Medical Library Association (MLA) annual conferences were later published as full-text journal articles and which features of the abstract and first author influence the likelihood of future publication. To do so, we replicated a previous study on MLA conference abstracts presented in 2002 and 2003. The secondary objective was to compare the publication rates between the prior and current study. Presentations and posters delivered at the 2012 and 2014 MLA meetings were coded to identify factors associated with publication. Postconference publication of abstracts as journal articles was determined using a literature search and survey sent to first authors. Chi-squared tests were used to assess differences in the publication rate, and logistic regression was used to assess the influence of abstract factors on publication. The combined publication rate for the 2012 and 2014 meetings was 21.8% (137/628 abstracts), which is a statistically significant decrease compared to the previously reported rate for 2002 and 2003 (27.6%, 122/442 abstracts). The odds that an abstract would later be published as a journal article increased if the abstract was multi-institutional or if it was research, specifically surveys or mixed methods research. The lower publication rate of MLA conference abstracts may be due to an increased number of program or nonresearch abstracts that were accepted or a more competitive peer review process for journals. MLA could increase the publication rate by encouraging and enabling multi-institutional research projects among its members.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is only limited information on how the COVID-19 pandemic has affected people diagnosed with mental health disorders, especially people admitted to psychiatric wards. We surveyed the views of inpatients at Qatar's only psychiatric hospital regarding how the pandemic had affected their mental health and social changes they had experienced during the pandemic. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Nearly half (43%) of those who completed the survey reported that the pandemic had led to a deterioration in their mental health. Those who reported deterioration in their mental health during the pandemic were significantly more likely to have experienced negative social changes during the pandemic. Examples included increased stress from the home and reduced ability to discuss emotions/feelings with family members. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health services need to ensure ongoing support for patients during and after the pandemic. Mental health nurses have a pivotal role including identifying early warning signs of relapse of mental disorders, delivering talking treatments and providing practical advice and COVID-19-related education. Further work is needed to assess the views of people diagnosed with mental health problems in different countries and at a different time point during the pandemic. ABSTRACT: Introduction The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on people under the care of mental health services has received relatively little attention in the scientific literature. Aim To assess psychiatric inpatients' views regarding their mental health and experience of social change during the pandemic. Method Cross-sectional survey of consecutive patients admitted to Qatar's only psychiatric hospital between mid-June and mid-October 2020. Results Data were analysed for 114/284 (40%) patients admitted during the study period. 8 (7%) reported a history of COVID-19. 43% reported that the pandemic had led to deterioration in their mental health, 11% to an improvement and 39% that there had been no attributable change. Those reporting worsened mental health, attributable to the pandemic, were significantly more likely to report having experienced four negative social changes during the pandemic, namely reduced ability to discuss emotions/feelings with family members, decreased time spent exercising, decreased time spent relaxing and increased stress from the home. Demographic factors did not distinguish those reporting worsened mental health from those whose mental health was improved or unchanged. Discussion A large proportion of psychiatric inpatients reported negative social and mental health changes during the pandemic. However, the study cannot determine causality. Implications for practice Mental health services should consider the psychological and social aspects of people's lives, including their interactions with family, friends and the community. This is especially relevant during the COVID-19 pandemic due to its wide impact on society. Interventions for people diagnosed with mental health disorders should address their psychological and social needs.

Cities can set in motion sustainability transitions through experimentation and innovation. To invest in and mainstream solutions that contribute to urban transformation agendas, urban planners needs to understand which innovations have transformational potential as well as how these innovations can accelerate sustainability transitions. In order to explore this, existing frameworks of transformative capacity provide the guidance, but they are generic, abstract, and challenging to apply for urban planning. As part of our effort to develop a more operational version of the transformative capacity framework by Wolfram (2016), we conducted a systematic scoping review of the academic literature to determine the characteristics of people-based and nature-based low-carbon innovations that constitutes their transformative capacity. After reviewing 65 records, we identified dimensions indicating each of the transformative capacity components through analysis and synthesis. Besides contributing to the science-policy interface through a knowledge synthesis on low-carbon people-based and nature-based innovations, this paper examines bridging frameworks to inform urban planners in developing practical solutions and actionable elements for low-carbon urban futures.

Ubiquitous, smart technology has the potential to assist humans in numerous ways, including with health and social care. COVID-19 has notably hastened the move to remotely delivering many health services. A variety of stakeholders are involved in the process of developing technology. Where stakeholders are research participants, this poses practical and ethical challenges, particularly if the research is conducted in people's homes. Researchers must observe prima facie ethical obligations linked to participants' interests in having their autonomy and privacy respected. This study aims to explore the ethical considerations around consent, privacy, anonymization, and data sharing with participants involved in SPHERE (Sensor Platform for Healthcare in a Residential Environment), a project for developing smart technology for monitoring health behaviors at home. Participants' unique insights from being part of this unusual experiment offer valuable perspectives on how to properly approach informed consent for similar smart home research in the future. Semistructured qualitative interviews were conducted with 7 households (16 individual participants) recruited from SPHERE. Purposive sampling was used to invite participants from a range of household types and ages. Interviews were conducted in participants' homes or on-site at the University of Bristol. Interviews were digitally recorded, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed using an inductive thematic approach. Four themes were identified-motivation for participating; transparency, understanding, and consent; privacy, anonymity, and data use; and trust in research. Motivations to participate in SPHERE stemmed from an altruistic desire to support research directed toward the public good. Participants were satisfied with the consent process despite reporting some difficulties-recalling and understanding the information received, the timing and amount of information provision, and sometimes finding the information to be abstract. Participants were satisfied that privacy was assured and judged that the goals of the research compensated for threats to privacy. Participants trusted SPHERE. The factors that were relevant to developing and maintaining this trust were the trustworthiness of the research team, the provision of necessary information, participants' control over their participation, and positive prior experiences of research involvement. This study offers valuable insights into the perspectives of participants in smart home research on important ethical considerations around consent and privacy. The findings may have practical implications for future research regarding the types of information researchers should convey, the extent to which anonymity can be assured, and the long-term duty of care owed to the participants who place trust in researchers not only on the basis of this information but also because of their institutional affiliation. This study highlights important ethical implications. Although autonomy matters, trust appears to matter the most. Therefore, researchers should be alert to the need to foster and maintain trust, particularly as failing to do so might have deleterious effects on future research.

There is an unmet need for review methods to support priority-setting, policy-making and strategic planning when a wide variety of interventions from differing disciplines may have the potential to impact a health outcome of interest. This article describes a Modular Literature Review, a novel systematic search and review method that employs systematic search strategies together with a hierarchy-based appraisal and synthesis of the resulting evidence. We designed the Modular Review to examine the effects of 43 interventions on a health problem of global significance. Using the PICOS (Population, Intervention, Comparison, Outcome, Study design) framework, we developed a single four-module search template in which population, comparison and outcome modules were the same for each search and the intervention module was different for each of the 43 interventions. A series of literature searches were performed in five databases, followed by screening, extraction and analysis of data. "ES documents", source documents for effect size (ES) estimates, were systematically identified based on a hierarchy of evidence. The evidence was categorised according to the likely effect on the outcome and presented in a standardised format with quantitative effect estimates, meta-analyses and narrative reporting. We compared the Modular Review to other review methods in health research for its strengths and limitations. The Modular Review method was used to review the impact of 46 antenatal interventions on four specified birth outcomes within 12 months. A total of 61,279 records were found; 35,244 were screened by title-abstract. Six thousand two hundred seventy-two full articles were reviewed against the inclusion criteria resulting in 365 eligible articles. The Modular Review preserves principles that have traditionally been important to systematic reviews but can address multiple research questions simultaneously. The result is an accessible, reliable answer to the question of "what works?". Thus, it is a well-suited literature review method to support prioritisation, decisions and planning to implement an agenda for health improvement.

Poor attendance at school, whether due to absenteeism or exclusion, leads to multiple social, educational, and lifelong socioeconomic disadvantages. We aimed to measure the association between a broad range of diagnosed neurodevelopmental and mental disorders and recorded self-harm by the age of 24 years and school attendance and exclusion. In this nationwide, retrospective, electronic cohort study, we drew a cohort from the Welsh Demographic Service Dataset, which included individuals aged 7-16 years (16 years being the school leaving age in the UK) enrolled in state-funded schools in Wales in the academic years 2012/13-2015/16 (between Sept 1, 2012, and Aug 31, 2016). Using the Adolescent Mental Health Data Platform, we linked attendance and exclusion data to national demographic and primary and secondary health-care datasets. We identified all pupils with a recorded diagnosis of neurodevelopmental disorders (ADHD and autism spectrum disorder [ASD]), learning difficulties, conduct disorder, depression, anxiety, eating disorders, alcohol or drugs misuse, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, other psychotic disorders, or recorded self-harm (our explanatory variables) before the age of 24 years. Outcomes were school absence and exclusion. Generalised estimating equations with exchangeable correlation structures using binomial distribution with the logit link function were used to calculate odds ratios (OR) for absenteeism and exclusion, adjusting for sex, age, and deprivation. School attendance, school exclusion, and health-care data were available for 414 637 pupils (201 789 [48·7%] girls and 212 848 [51·3%] boys; mean age 10·5 years [SD 3·8] on Sept 1, 2012; ethnicity data were not available). Individuals with a record of a neurodevelopmental disorder, mental disorder, or self-harm were more likely to be absent or excluded in any school year than were those without a record. Unadjusted ORs for absences ranged from 2·1 (95% CI 2·0-2·2) for those with neurodevelopmental disorders to 6·6 (4·9-8·3) for those with bipolar disorder. Adjusted ORs (aORs) for absences ranged from 2·0 (1·9-2·1) for those with neurodevelopmental disorders to 5·5 (4·2-7·2) for those with bipolar disorder. Unadjusted ORs for exclusion ranged from 1·7 (1·3-2·2) for those with eating disorders to 22·7 (20·8-24·7) for those with a record of drugs misuse. aORs for exclusion ranged from 1·8 (1·5-2·0) for those with learning difficulties to 11·0 (10·0-12·1) for those with a record of drugs misuse. Children and young people up to the age of 24 years with a record of a neurodevelopmental or mental disorder or self-harm before the age of 24 years were more likely to miss school than those without a record. Exclusion or persistent absence are potential indicators of current or future poor mental health that are routinely collected and could be used to target assessment and early intervention. Integrated school-based and health-care strategies to support young peoples' engagement with school life are required. The Medical Research Council, MQ Mental Health Research, and the Economic and Social Research Council. For the Welsh translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Plants of the genus Cannabis have been gaining attention in medicine. The most outstanding treatments include antispasmodic, analgesic, antiemetic, neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions. The aim of the study was to describe patents associated with cannabis and cannabinoids as a treatment for pregnant women. A search was carried out on four patent bases: National Institute of Industrial Property, Latipat, Espacenet and Patentscope. The used search keys were "Cannabis", "Cannabidiol", "Cannabinoids", "CBD" and "THC" associated with "pregnant women". Patents in any language and year were considered. A total of 1,402 patents were found in all the used databases. After reading the title and abstract, patents were excluded if they did not meet the eligibility criteria and/or if they were duplicates, thus leaving 11 patents on the use of cannabis and/or cannabinoids as treatment in pregnant women. A critical analysis was carried out. All selected patents were from the Asian continent (China), focusing on traditional Chinese medicine for treating various possible changes during pregnancy and also for diseases prevention in the postpartum period. It was found that the main causes for the need of such treatments were related to spleen deficiencies, inability and/or moisture stagnation. Finally, the vast majority of treatments used Cannabis fruits associated with other plants. Given the above, patents related to cannabis and cannabinoids for the treatment of pregnant women in the peri and postnatal periods were found to be associated with traditional Chinese medicine.

Compassionate Cities: Strengthening Social Resources in Communities for Mutual Support at the End of Life 

State Medicaid programs are the largest source of funding for long-term services and supports (LTSS). We characterized states across quartiles of mean LTSS spending for individuals ≥65 and used the Health and Retirement Study to examine the demographic, functional, and caregiving characteristics across these quartiles. Individuals in states with lower Medicaid spending on LTSS reported more family and friend caregiving hours and were more likely to be from racial and ethnic minority groups. Continued work is needed to improve Medicaid LTSS policy to better support vulnerable populations, particularly in lower quartile states.

Efforts to explain the burden of cardiovascular disease (CVD) often focus on genetic factors or social determinants of health. There is little evidence on the comparative predictive value of each, which could guide clinical and public health investments in measuring genetic versus social information. We compared the variance in CVD-related outcomes explained by genetic versus socioeconomic predictors. Data were drawn from the Health and Retirement Study (N = 8,720). We examined self-reported diabetes, heart disease, depression, smoking, and body mass index, and objectively measured total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. For each outcome, we compared the variance explained by demographic characteristics, socioeconomic position (SEP), and genetic characteristics including a polygenic score for each outcome and principal components (PCs) for genetic ancestry. We used R-squared values derived from race-stratified multivariable linear regressions to evaluate the variance explained. The variance explained by models including all predictors ranged from 3.7% to 14.3%. Demographic characteristics explained more than half this variance for most outcomes. SEP explained comparable or greater variance relative to the combination of the polygenic score and PCs for most conditions among both white and Black participants. The combination of SEP, polygenic score, and PCs performed substantially better, suggesting that each set of characteristics may independently contribute to the prediction of CVD-related outcomes. Philip R. Lee Institute for Health Policy Studies, Department of Family & Community Medicine, UCSF. Focusing on genetic inputs into personalized medicine predictive models, without considering measures of social context that have clear predictive value, needlessly ignores relevant information that is more feasible and affordable to collect on patients in clinical settings. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B879.

To compare the Spanish law on euthanasia and assisted suicide with those that exist in other countries. Systematic review of the bibliography. Medline/PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library were searched for studies that contained in their title or abstract the descriptors «euthanasia» or «assisted suicide» and also «legislation» or «law», between 2002 and the end of 2020. The search found 1647 studies and after screening 663 were assessed, of which 30 were included in the review. Studies that only contained opinions or did not provide data on euthanasia/assisted suicide in the countries that have them regulated were rejected. We registered the criteria that regulate the acceptance or rejection of a request for euthanasia or assisted suicide in Spain and in the other countries where they are decriminalized. The euthanasia regulations in the world can be grouped into three groups: laws that allow euthanasia and assisted suicide (Netherlands, Belgium, some states of Australia, New Zealand, Spain), those in which the law only allows assisted suicide (USA) and those in which only assisted suicide is admitted and based on court decisions, without specific legislation (Switzerland, Germany). Although there are differences, the laws that the Spanish euthanasia law most closely resembles are those of the Netherlands and Belgium, so it is foreseeable that the casuistry of euthanasia and its figures in Spain will resemble that of those countries in the future.

Reaching zero-dose children (infants who receive no routine vaccinations) is a global strategic priority. We studied zero-dose children in India over 24 years to clarify aggregate trends and the contribution of large-scale social, economic, and geographical inequalities to these. We did a multilevel, geospatial analysis of repeated cross-sectional surveys of all four rounds (1992-2016) of India's National Family Health Survey to study the prevalence, distribution, and drivers of zero-dose (no first dose of diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis) vaccination status. We included all children born to participating women who were aged 12-23 months at the time of the survey, as this is the standard age at which immunisation data are assessed. Children who died before the survey and those missing data on key outcomes or correlates were excluded. The outcome was child zero-dose vaccination status. We also compared the prevalence of nutritional deficits among zero-dose versus vaccinated children. For the most recent survey, we produced geospatial estimates identifying the prevalence of zero-dose children across states and districts and used these to project head count. We examined 393 167 children for eligibility. 72 848 children were included in the final analytic data set. The proportion of zero-dose children in India declined from 33·4% (95% CI 32·5-34·2) in 1992 to 10·1% (9·8-10·4) in 2016. Progress notwithstanding, in 2016, zero-dose children remained concentrated among disadvantaged groups (prevalence in the bottom wealth quintile 15·3%, 95% CI 14·6-16·0; prevalence among mothers with no education 16·8%, 16·1-17·4). Compared with vaccinated children, zero-dose children were more likely to suffer from malnutrition in all survey rounds (prevalence of severe stunting in 1992: zero dose 41·3%, 95% CI 39·2-43·8 vs vaccinated 28·5%, 27·2-29·7; 2016: zero dose 24·9%, 23·6-26·2 vs vaccinated 18·7%, 18·3-19·1). In 2016, there were an estimated 2·88 (95% CI 2·86-2·89) million zero-dose children in India, concentrated in less developed states and districts and several urban areas. Over a 24-year period in India, child zero-dose status was shaped by large-scale social inequalities and remained a consistent marker of generalised vulnerability. Interventions that address this cycle of intergenerational inequities should be prioritised. None. For the French, Spanish, and Hindi translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Infertility is increasingly recognised as a global public health issue for women and men that merits further investigation to support policy and programming. While research in high-income settings has examined the consequences of infertility and access to services, there has been limited synthesis of how individuals experience infertility in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). This protocol describes a systematic review that will synthesise qualitative evidence on experiences of infertility among women and men in LMICs. The review will follow the Enhancing transparency in reporting the synthesis of qualitative research (ENTREQ) guidelines for reporting on qualitative evidence syntheses. The study team will search for published literature in PubMed, CINAHL and Scopus and PsycINFO databases and review available grey literature. Using Covidence software, two independent reviewers will conduct title and abstract screening based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, followed by full-text reviews and extraction by a larger team. Quality will be appraised using an adapted version of the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme guidelines. We will conduct thematic synthesis to characterise individual experiences and related factors at the individual, interpersonal, community and health system levels. We will develop a conceptual framework to describe evidence on experiences of infertility in LMICs and to help inform interventions across settings. This protocol has been internally approved as exempt by the Institutional Review Board of the Population Council, as it does not involve contact with human subjects or personally identifying data. Results of the review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and will be used to inform future infertility research and programming in LMICs. CRD42021227742.

Tweetable abstract There is growing evidence of a role of environmental exposures in the pathogenesis and epigenetics of suicidal behavior in older age.

Currently, research into the key elements and role of peer support in the aftermath of victimization is limited. This study reviews the types of evidence available, clarifying key concepts in the literature, examining how research is conducted and identifying key characteristics or factors related to peer support in the aftermath of a victimization experience. A scoping review was performed for peer-reviewed papers using predefined search terms. Studies addressing peer support among victims and survivors of crime, traffic accidents, calamities, suicide, and veterans were included. Selection was based on title and abstract and resulted in 16 papers eligible for review. An inductive thematic analysis was used to synthesize data and findings. Empirical studies into the key elements and role of peer support in the aftermath of victimization are limited in availability and scattered in terms of approach to research (e.g., methodology, type of respondents, type of peer support) and focus (such as focus on effects on mental health and well-being, on key elements or an evaluation of a support program). Studies mainly have an explorative and interpretative character. Key elements, operationalizations, positive outcomes and negative outcomes of peer support are discussed. The currently available knowledge on peer support in the aftermath of victimization lacks four points: cross-cultural studies, lived experiences as empirical findings, a variety of victimization events and longitudinal studies. Moreover, it is argued that future research should be improved by adopting a contextual and narrative approach.

To examine the nature, quality, and effectiveness of Play Therapy (PT) interventions in children with chronic health conditions (CHC) and to identify the measures used to evaluate psychosocial outcomes. Systematic searches of the databases: Medline complete, PsycINFO, CINHAL, Embase and Sport Discuss were conducted to identify peer reviewed papers reporting original studies published in English between January1990 - April 2020. Studies testing any type of PT or Filial Therapy (FT) with children with CHC aged between 3 and 11 years, or their parents if FT, where outcomes were primarily psychosocial were eligible. The title and abstract search identified 6742 papers and six studies (three each for PT and FT) including two randomized control trials were identified as eligible for review. All FT interventions involved group-based training, while only one PT study used a group format. Outcomes for children included emotional and behavioural issues including anxiety, depression, and self-concept and while constructs were broadly comparable across studies, the measures used differed. Sample size ranged between 4 and 58. Two studies suggested positive impact of PT on depression, with one finding improvements in self-concept. Three studies with sample sizes less than 30 found no effect. With varied study designs, and small sample sizes, current evidence regarding the effectiveness of PT in improving psychosocial outcomes for children with chronic illnesses is inconclusive. The field should move from small underpowered studies to randomized trials with comprehensive protocols and larger sample sizes.

Exposure of newborns to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) is a public health concern. The objective of this study was to assess the prevalence of POPs in human milk collected from lactating mothers in Lebanon and to investigate the sociodemographic, nutritional, and other lifestyle determinants. Fifty-four breast milk samples were collected as per World Health Organization guidelines. A survey was used to assess the anthropometric and demographic characteristics of participants. Dietary habits were evaluated based on a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire. Organochlorine pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls were measured in milk samples with liquid-liquid extraction and gas chromatography. Among the screened POPs, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) was the only POP detected in breast milk samples and was found in only 17.9% of the samples, with a mean (SD) of 11.6 (5.0) μg/L and a range of 5.7 to 21.4 μg/L. Prepregnancy body mass index and age were positively associated with DDE contamination in breast milk. Women who consumed cereals at least two times per week had detectable DDE contamination in their breast milk. Consumption of potatoes and beans at least once per week was also associated with DDE contamination. Our study is the first to assess the presence of POPs in breast milk in Lebanon. The benefits of breastfeeding compensate for the low prevalence of DDE in the breast milk. Our findings highlight the high need to implement monitoring policies, good agricultural practices, and education programs for breastfeeding mothers.

Growing evidence demonstrates that the mental and psychosocial health impacts of caring vary significantly for individual children, depending on who they are, the person that they care for, their responsibilities and the wider family situation. Although individual studies have made progress in identifying the range of impacts, there is a lack of clarity around which impacts affect who and in what circumstances. This synthesis, based on RAMESES realist protocols, aims to increase clarity concerning how and why the mental and psychosocial health impacts of caring for a family member vary for different children. There were 12 391 unique search results screened at title, abstract and full-paper levels. Forty-four retained studies were analysed, resulting in the development of a model with 17 context-mechanism-outcome configurations. The model divides the configurations into three interlinking domains. The caregiving responsibilities domain considers how the impacts of caring vary with the circumstances of the individual young carer, the person they care for and their family. The identity domain details the development of a caring identity that potentially mitigates the negative effects of caring and enables positive benefits. The support domain concerns the support provided from family, community and services that, depending on quality, can mitigate or exacerbate the impacts of caring. Support also moderates the care identity by affecting self-perception of the caring role. The model has the potential to inform the development of interventions that target particular mechanisms to enable positive change for young carers. This potential can be enhanced by further research to test the model, with a focus on refining configurations where less evidence is available. There is a particular need to focus on identification which is under-represented in the model as both a mechanism and a contextual factor due to unidentified young carers being largely absent from past research.

Suicides Among Adolescents in a Major German City 

The COVID-19 pandemic has brought tremendous changes in healthcare delivery and exacerbated a wide range of inequities. Social workers across a broad range of healthcare settings bring an expertise in social, behavioural and mental healthcare needed to help address these health inequities. In addition, social workers integrate policy-directed interventions and solutions in clinical practice, which is a needed perspective for recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. It remains unclear, however, what the most pressing policy issues are that have emerged during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, many social workers in health settings tend to underuse policy in their direct practice. The objectives of this scoping review are to: (1) systematically scope the literature on social work, COVID-19 pandemic and policy; and (2) describe the competencies required by social workers and the social work profession to address the policy issues emerging during the COVID-19 pandemic. The scoping review follows Arksey and O'Malley's five-stage framework. Identification of literature published between 1 December 2019 and the search date, 31 March 2021, will take place in two stages: (1) title and abstract review, and (2) full-text review. In partnership with a health science librarian, the research team listed keywords related to social work and policy to search databases including Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Social Services Abstract and Social Work Abstracts. Two graduate-level research assistants will conduct screening and full-text review. Data will then be extracted, charted, analysed and summarised to report on our results and implications on practice, policy and future research. Results will help develop a policy practice competence framework to inform how social workers can influence policy. We will share our findings through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations. This study does not require Research Ethics Board approval as it uses publicly available sources of data.

Infants born alive <37 weeks are classified as premature. The global estimate of preterm birth in 2014 was 10.6%, and it is the leading cause of death of children under the age of 5 years. Preterm birth disproportionately affects women of minority populations, yet knowledge about the incidence and associated outcomes among Pacific Islanders is limited. The objectives of this scoping review are to identify studies that describe risk factors, maternal-child health outcomes and existing interventions to prevent preterm birth among Pacific Islanders, and to summarise the barriers and facilitators to decrease the burden. We will follow the Joanna Briggs Institute Manual for Evidence Synthesis for scoping reviews and the Preferred Reporting Items for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) to conduct this scoping review. The Covidence web application will be used for data management and consensus review. We will search on MEDLINE ALL (Ovid), EMBASE (Ovid), Web of Science Core Collection (as licensed at Yale), the Cochrane Library, CINAHL (EBSCOhost) and two non-indexed regional journals ( Findings will drive suggestions for new data collection needed to fill knowledge gaps and improve future study designs to decrease the burden of preterm birth among Pacific Islanders. There are no ethical concerns. This protocol will be disseminated in related peer-reviewed journals.

The Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale is a tool for evaluating the attitudes of medical staff toward reporting adverse events in clinical practice. This study aimed to assess the reliability and validity of the Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale translated into Chinese used with trainee nurses in mainland China. The Chinese version of the Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale was developed following guidelines for the cross-cultural adaptation of self-reporting measures. The reliability and validity of the Chinese version of the Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale was tested on 773 nursing interns by online investigation. Confirmatory factor analysis was performed on 350 questionnaires completed by the participants while exploratory factor analysis was performed on 423 questionnaires to test the structural validity of the scale. There were 23 items included in the Chinese version of the Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale. The Cronbach's α-coefficient for the internal consistency of the total score was found to be 0.84 with a test-retest reliability value of 0.82, indicating a high level of reliability. Five common factors were extracted. The structural validity on the Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin test was 0.87 and the contribution rate of cumulative variance was 58.51%. The content validity values ranged between 0.86 and 1.00. The Chinese version of the Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale is a valid and reliable tool for evaluating nursing interns' attitudes toward reporting clinical adverse events in China. This validation of the Chinese version of the scale also extends the use of the scale to a different population. Nursing interns are responsible for a relatively high incidence of adverse events and their attitude to reporting these is crucial to patient safety. The Chinese version of the Reporting of Clinical Adverse Events Scale will be helpful for evaluating the reporting attitude of nursing interns.

This review aims to systematically identify and synthesize qualitative data on adolescents' experiences of the barriers to and facilitators of physical activity to understand whether these differ by socioeconomic position. Multiple databases (MEDLINE, Web of Science Core Collection, PsycINFO, and ERIC) were searched in August 2020. Duplicate title/abstract and full text screening was conducted. Studies were included if they reported qualitative data collected from adolescents (aged 10-19), a measure of socioeconomic position and focused on physical activity. Studies not published in English or published before 2000 were excluded. Relevant data were extracted and methodological quality assessed (in duplicate). Data were analyzed using Thomas and Harden's methods for the thematic synthesis. Four analytical themes emerged from the 25 included studies: (1) social support, (2) accessibility and the environment, (3) other behaviors and health, and (4) gendered experiences. These themes appeared across socioeconomic groups; however, their narratives varied significantly. For example, provision and access to local facilities was discussed as a facilitator to middle and high socioeconomic adolescents, but was a barrier to low socioeconomic adolescents. These findings can be used to inform how different socioeconomic groups may benefit from, or be disadvantaged by, current interventions.

People with disabilities (PWDs) remain among the poorest and least empowered population. They experience limited access to basic services, especially in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). The infringement of their human rights remains at an alarming level, despite the availability of the community-based rehabilitation (CBR) strategy and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (UNCRPD). CBR, as a strategy for poverty alleviation, social inclusion and equalisation of opportunity, has broadened its scope from a mere strategy for access to health and rehabilitation services to include education, livelihood, social inclusivity and empowerment. CBR is implemented across the world in the majority of LMIC signatories to the UNCRPD. South Africa is among the countries that are implementing CBR. However, the extent and the nature of implementation is not known. This study, therefore, aims to map out the empirical evidence of the implementation of CBR in South Africa. The study is a scoping review based on the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extended for Scoping Review (PRISMA-ScR) methodology. The information will be extracted and captured on a data charting template that will be used through each phase of the study. The review will be guided by the following research question validated by the amended population-concept-context framework according to the Joanna Briggs Institute methodology for scoping reviews: 'An investigation into CBR implementation in South Africa.' The search will be conducted in the following electronic databases Google Scholar, PubMed, Medline, and Cochrane, etc, using Boolean logic. Restrictions will be set for years (Jan. 2009-Dec. 2019), English language peer-reviewed studies based on South Africa. The search output will be screened for primary studies on Community based rehabilitation in South Africa. Two independent reviewers will conduct title and abstract screening to identify potential eligible studies. After which full-text screening on the potential eligible studies and assessed for inclusion by the two independent reviewers. The Mixed Method Appraisal Tool will be applied to assess the quality of the studies included in the review. The gathered evidence from the selected studies will be discussed in relation to the research questions using a narrative to identify and explore emergent themes. The review will provide a baseline of evidence on the implementation of CBR and will highlight gaps regarding the implementation of CBR in a South African Context. The gaps identified will be used to develop a framework that will guide implementation of CBR in South Africa.

Information needs of family caregivers regarding new technologies for dementia care at home: A qualitative study 

Lessons Learned - Observational Study After One Year of 'Domestic Violence Consultation' at the University Emergency Department Bern 

Routinely collected health facility data usually captured and stored in Health Management Information Systems (HMIS) are potential sources of data for frequent and local disaggregated estimation of the coverage of reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health interventions (RMNCH), but have been under-utilized due to concerns over data quality. We reviewed methods for estimation of national or subnational coverage of RMNCH interventions using HMIS data exclusively or in conjunction with survey data from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). We conducted a comprehensive review of studies indexed in PubMed and Scopus to identify potential papers based on predefined search terms. Two reviewers screened the papers using defined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Following sequences of title, abstract and full paper reviews, we retained 18 relevant papers. 12 papers used only HMIS data and 6 used both HMIS and survey data. There is enormous lack of standards in the existing methods for estimating RMNCH intervention coverage; all appearing to be highly author dependent. The denominators for coverage measures were estimated using census, non-census and combined projection-based methods. No satisfactory methods were found for treatment-based coverage indicators for which the estimation of target population requires the population prevalence of underlying conditions. The estimates of numerators for the coverage measures were obtained from the count of users or visits and in some cases correction for completeness of reporting in the HMIS following an assessment of data quality. Standard methods for correcting numerators from HMIS data for accurate estimation of coverage of RMNCH interventions are needed to expand the use of these data. More research and investments are required to improve denominators for health facility-derived statistics. Improvement in routine data quality and analytical methods would allow for timely estimation of RMNCH intervention coverage at the national and subnational levels.

There is widespread agreement that medical care without compassion cannot be patient-centred, but patients still routinely cite that they feel a lack of compassion in the care environment. There is a dearth of research on how compassion is experienced in a non-hospital setting such as a care home, not just by residents but by staff and other key stakeholders. This scoping review aims to determine the body of existing, published research that explicitly refers to compassion or empathy in the context of care homes. This scoping review will follow the methodology described by Arksey and O'Malley and the PRISMAextension for scoping reviews guideline to adhere to an established methodological framework. Relevant publications will be searched on the EMBASE, MEDLINE, PubMed, CINAHL, EBM Reviews and PsycInfo databases. Peer-reviewed literature focusing on experiences of compassion or empathy in care home settings from the perspective of either staff, residents (or clients), family members or their combined perspectives will be included. We will focus on literature published from 2000 up to 1 November 2021, in English, Spanish, Portuguese Finnish and Estonian. The review process will consist of three stages: a title review to identify articles of interest, this will be followed by an abstract review and finally, a full-text review. These three stages will be conducted by two reviewers. Data will be extracted, collated and charted and a narrative synthesis of the results will be presented. Ethical approval is not required for this scoping review. This study supports the first part of a larger programme to understand the importance of technologies in care homes. The scoping review will examine data from publicly available documentation, reports and published papers. Dissemination will be achieved through engagement with stakeholder communities, and publishing results. Our team will include representatives from the different communities involved.

Health literacy (HL) is thought to be crucial for the management of the manifold demands relating to child health which parents are faced with. Albeit many studies have investigated parental HL and health behaviours (HBs) directed at the child, knowledge about the pathways which link parental HL with HB is scarce. The aim of this scoping review was to identify and comprehensively describe the variety of pathways linking parental HL with HBs directed at the child which were empirically analysed in previous studies. Following established scoping review methods database searches were conducted in MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and WebofScience on 5 March 2020. Eligibility criteria included primary, empirical studies assessing parental HL and HB directed at the child in the general parent population. Titles and abstracts were screened independently by six reviewers for potentially relevant publications and data were extracted using standardized data extraction forms. The search identified 6916 articles for title and abstract screening. After full-text review, 50 studies were included in this review. Most studies (N = 24) assumed a direct association between HL and HBs and only few studies (N = 4) used more complex models investigating different pathways or mediation and/or moderation models. Overall, the evidence on the underlying pathways linking parental HL and HBs directed at the child is mixed and fairly limited. Therefore, hypothesis-driven research and integration of results into theoretical frameworks is needed for advancing both the research on HL and public health practice.

This study is a scoping review examining factors that affect consistent hearing aid use in young children with early identified hearing loss (HL). Online databases were used to identify journal articles published between 2009 and 2019, yielding over 1800 citations. The citations were uploaded into an online software product called Covidence that enables scoping/systematic review management. After duplicates were removed, 857 articles were screened by abstract and title name, 93 of which were put through for full-text screening. Twenty-five articles met predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Appraisal tools were utilized to establish the quality of the studies included. Numerical summaries were used to synthesize and describe the data set. Thematic analysis was utilized to identify global and subthemes within the data set. Numerical summaries revealed that over half of the studies in the data set used a quantitative design. Thematic analysis of the data identified four global themes namely, "each child is an individual," "parents are key," "parents require support," and "professionals make a difference." Each global theme was further divided into subthemes, most of which centered around the parents of children with HL. Each subtheme was categorized as a malleable or a fixed factor that impacts on hearing aid use in young children with HL. This scoping review identified malleable and fixed factors that impact on hearing aid use in young children with HL. These factors centered around the individual characteristics of children with HL, the key responsibility their parents have, and the important contribution that professionals can make. Irrespective of whether factors are malleable or fixed, parents and professionals working with children with HL can have a positive impact on hearing aid use. This is likely to have a flow on, positive impact on their overall communication and learning outcomes.

Cloud computing is among the most beneficial solutions to digital problems. Security is one of the focal issues in cloud computing technology, and this study aims at investigating security issues of cloud computing and their probable solutions. A systematic review was performed using Scopus, Pubmed, Science Direct, and Web of Science databases. Once the title and abstract were evaluated, the quality of studies was assessed in order to choose the most relevant according to exclusion and inclusion criteria. Then, the full texts of studies selected were read thoroughly to extract the necessary results. According to the review, data security, availability, and integrity, as well as information confidentiality and network security, were the major challenges in cloud security. Further, data encryption, authentication, and classification, besides application programming interfaces (API), were security solutions to cloud infrastructure. Data encryption could be applied to store and retrieve data from the cloud in order to provide secure communication. Besides, several central challenges, which make the cloud security engineering process problematic, have been considered in this study.

To determine the associations of demographic, clinical, laboratory, organ dysfunction, and illness severity variable values with: 1) sepsis, severe sepsis, or septic shock in children with infection and 2) multiple organ dysfunction or death in children with sepsis, severe sepsis, or septic shock. MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched from January 1, 2004, and November 16, 2020. Case-control studies, cohort studies, and randomized controlled trials in children greater than or equal to 37-week-old postconception to 18 years with suspected or confirmed infection, which included the terms "sepsis," "septicemia," or "septic shock" in the title or abstract. Study characteristics, patient demographics, clinical signs or interventions, laboratory values, organ dysfunction measures, and illness severity scores were extracted from eligible articles. Random-effects meta-analysis was performed. One hundred and six studies met eligibility criteria of which 81 were included in the meta-analysis. Sixteen studies (9,629 patients) provided data for the sepsis, severe sepsis, or septic shock outcome and 71 studies (154,674 patients) for the mortality outcome. In children with infection, decreased level of consciousness and higher Pediatric Risk of Mortality scores were associated with sepsis/severe sepsis. In children with sepsis/severe sepsis/septic shock, chronic conditions, oncologic diagnosis, use of vasoactive/inotropic agents, mechanical ventilation, serum lactate, platelet count, fibrinogen, procalcitonin, multi-organ dysfunction syndrome, Pediatric Logistic Organ Dysfunction score, Pediatric Index of Mortality-3, and Pediatric Risk of Mortality score each demonstrated significant and consistent associations with mortality. Pooled mortality rates varied among high-, upper middle-, and lower middle-income countries for patients with sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shock (p < 0.0001). Strong associations of several markers of organ dysfunction with the outcomes of interest among infected and septic children support their inclusion in the data validation phase of the Pediatric Sepsis Definition Taskforce.

The implementation of integrated vascular surgery training programs was recently shown to be associated with an increase in women entering the field. However, whether this has precipitated a subsequent increase in the active participation of women in academic vascular societies remains unclear. We sought to examine the trends of academic inclusion of women vascular surgeons and surgical trainees over the past 15 years at the Southern Association for Vascular Surgery (SAVS). Scientific programs for annual meetings of the SAVS, and program matriculation statistics from the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, were reviewed for the period of 2006 to 2020. Yearly rates and 3-year averages of conference and society participation and vascular surgery training program matriculation rates were calculated and compared with proportion testing. Spearman correlation testing was used to compare trends, with ρ ≥0.600 defined as a strong correlation. Examining 3-year means, the average number of women authors per SAVS abstract increased from 0.78 to 1.42 over the course of the study period (P < .001), and the overall rate of women authors steadily increased from 12.8% to 21.5% (P < .001). Although this remains less than the proportion of women matriculating into vascular surgery programs in 2019 (29.3%; P = .007), the upward trend of women entering vascular surgery overall, and particularly vascular surgery fellowship, strongly correlates with the average number of women authors on abstracts at SAVS (ρ = 0.709 and ρ = 0.737, respectively). The percentage of women presenting authors increased from 9.7% to 28.4% (P = .004), but there was no increase in the percentage of women senior authors (10.1% to 9.6%; P = .92). In the 15-year period, only one abstract of 347 (0.3%) had full authorship by women vs 35.1% with full authorship by men (P < .001). Although the increase of women matriculating into vascular surgery programs over the study period did not correlate with the increase of women in senior leadership positions (ρ < 0.600), there was an increase in the number of women in committee chair positions (0.0% to 25.9%; P = .005), which correlated strongly with increasing society membership (ρ = 0.716). Additionally, there was an increase in women holding executive council positions from 0% to 10.0% (P = .08), although this was not statistically significant. Participation of women authoring and presenting papers at the SAVS has increased over the past 15 years at a rate that strongly correlates with the increasing rate of women entering vascular surgery training programs. It is important that society leadership opportunities continue to parallel this trend as we seek to further improve diversity in vascular surgery.

Children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have a low quality of life (QoL). The PedsQL™ 4.0 Generic Core Scales are widely used to assess general QoL in children. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to translate the original version of the CKD-specific PedsQL™ 3.0 End Stage Renal Disease Module into a Dutch version and to evaluate its validity and reliability. The forward-backward translation method based on the guidelines from the original developer was used to produce the Dutch version of the PedsQL™ 3.0 ESRD Module. Fifty-eight CKD patients (aged 8-18 years) and their parents (n = 31) filled in both generic and disease-specific modules. The non-clinical control group consisted of the same number of healthy children (matched for gender and age) and their parents. Cronbach's alpha coefficients (α's) for the PedsQL™ 3.0 ESRD Module demonstrated excellent reliability for the Total Scale scores. For all 7 subscales, α's were greater than 0.60, except for Perceived Physical Appearance. Overall, intercorrelations with the PedsQL™ 4.0 Generic Core Scales were in the medium to large range, supporting construct validity. Parent proxy reports showed lower generic QoL for all domains in CKD patients compared to healthy children. Child self-reports only demonstrated lower QoL on the domain School Functioning in children with CKD compared to healthy children. This study shows good validity and reliability for the Dutch version of the PedsQL™ 3.0 ESRD Module. However, testing with a larger study group is recommended in order to make final conclusions about the psychometric qualities of this measure. A higher resolution version of the Graphical abstract is available as Supplementary information.

There is a growing interest in scaling effective health innovations to promote equitable access to high-quality health services worldwide. However, multiple challenges persist in scaling innovations. In this study, we aim to summarize the scaling evidence in the health and social care literature and identify current knowledge gaps. We will conduct a living umbrella review according to the Joanna Briggs Institute Reviewers' Manual. We will consider all knowledge syntheses addressing scaling in health or social care (e.g., any setting, any clinical area) and conducted in a systematic way. We will search the following electronic databases: MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase, PsychINFO (Ovid), CINAHL (EBSCO), Web of Science, The Cochrane Library, Sociological Abstract (Proquest), Academic Search Premier (EBSCO), and Proquest Dissertations & Theses Global, from inception. Furthermore, we will conduct searches of the grey literature. No restriction regarding date or language will be applied. Each phase of the review will be processed by two independent reviewers. We will develop a data extraction form on Covidence. We will assess the methodological quality of the included reviews using AMSTAR2 and the risk of bias using ROBIS. Results will be presented in tabular form and accompanied by a narrative synthesis covering the traditional themes of scaling science that emerge from the analysis, such as coverage, range, and sustainability, as well as themes less covered in the literature, including reporting guidance, models, tools, barriers, and/or facilitators to scaling innovations, evidence regarding application in high-income or low-income countries, and end-user engagement. We will disseminate the findings via publications and through relevant networks. The findings of the umbrella review will facilitate access to scaling evidence in the literature and help strengthen the science of scaling for researchers, policy makers, and program managers. Finally, this work will highlight important knowledge gaps and help prioritize future research questions. This protocol was registered with the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) on November 11, 2020 (registration number: CRD42020183774 ).

Parents substantially influence children's diet and physical activity behaviors, which consequently impact childhood obesity risk. Given this influence of parents, the objective of this umbrella review was to synthesize evidence on effects of parent involvement in diet and physical activity treatment and prevention interventions on obesity risk among children aged 3-12 years old. Ovid/MEDLINE, Elsevier/Embase, Wiley/Cochrane Library, Clarivate/Web of Science, EBSCO/CINAHL, EBSCO/PsycInfo, and Epistemonikos.org were searched from their inception through January 2020. Abstract screening, full-text review, quality assessment, and data extraction were conducted independently by at least two authors. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses of diet and physical activity interventions that described parent involvement, included a comparator/control, and measured child weight/weight status as a primary outcome among children aged 3-12 years old were included. Data were extracted at the level of the systematic review/meta-analysis, and findings were narratively synthesized. Of 4158 references identified, 14 systematic reviews and/or meta-analyses (eight treatment focused and six prevention focused) were included and ranged in quality from very low to very high. Our findings support the inclusion of a parent component in both treatment and prevention interventions to improve child weight/weight status outcomes. Of note, all prevention-focused reviews included a school-based component. Evidence to define optimal parent involvement type and duration and to define the best methods of involving parents across multiple environments (e.g., home, preschool, school) was inadequate and warrants further research. PROSPERO registration: CRD42018095360.

In China, depressive disorders have been estimated to be the second leading cause of years lived with disability. However, nationally representative epidemiological data for depressive disorders, in particular use of mental health services by adults with these disorders, are unavailable in China. The present study, part of the China Mental Health Survey, 2012-15, aims to describe the socioeconomic characteristics and the use of mental health services in people with depressive disorders in China. The China Mental Health Survey was a cross-sectional epidemiological survey of mental disorders in a multistage clustered-area probability sample of adults of Chinese nationality (≥18 years) from 157 nationwide representative population-based disease surveillance points in 31 provinces across China. Trained investigators interviewed the participants with the Composite International Diagnostic Interview 3.0 to ascertain the presence of lifetime and 12-month depressive disorders according to DSM-IV criteria, including major depressive disorder, dysthymic disorder, and depressive disorder not otherwise specified. Participants with 12-month depressive disorders were asked whether they received any treatment for their emotional problems during the past 12 months and, if so, the specific types of treatment providers. The Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) was used to assess impairments associated with 12-month depressive symptoms. Data-quality control procedures included logic check by computers, sequential recording check, and phone-call check by the quality controllers, and reinterview check by the psychiatrists. Data were weighted according to the age-sex-residence distribution data from China's 2010 census population survey to adjust for differential probabilities of selection and differential response, as well as to post-stratify the sample to match the population distribution. 28 140 respondents (12 537 [44·6%] men and 15 603 [55·4%] women) completed the survey between July 22, 2013, and March 5, 2015. Ethnicity data (Han or non-Han) were collected for only a subsample. Prevalence of any depressive disorders was higher in women than men (lifetime prevalence odds ratio [OR] 1·44 [95% CI 1·20-1·72] and 12-month prevalence OR 1·41 [1·12-1·78]), in unemployed people than employed people (lifetime OR 2·38 [95% CI 1·68-3·38] and 12-month OR 2·80 [95% CI 1·88-4·18]), and in people who were separated, widowed, or divorced compared with those who were married or cohabiting (lifetime OR 1·87 [95% CI 1·39-2·51] and 12-month OR 1·85 [95% CI 1·40-2·46]). Overall, 574 (weighted % 75·9%) of 744 people with 12-month depressive disorders had role impairment of any SDS domain: 439 (83·6%) of 534 respondents with major depressive disorder, 207 (79·8%) of 254 respondents with dysthymic disorder, and 122 (59·9%) of 189 respondents with depressive disorder not otherwise specified. Only an estimated 84 (weighted % 9·5%) of 1007 participants with 12-month depressive disorders were treated in any treatment sector: 38 (3·6%) in speciality mental health, 20 (1·5%) in general medical, two (0·3%) in human services, and 21 (2·7%) in complementary and alternative medicine. Only 12 (0·5%) of 1007 participants with depressive disorders were treated adequately. Depressive disorders in China were more prevalent in women than men, unemployed people than employed, and those who were separated, widowed, or divorced than people who were married or cohabiting. Most people with depressive disorders reported social impairment. Treatment rates were very low, and few people received adequate treatment. National programmes are needed to remove barriers to availability, accessibility, and acceptability of care for depression in China. National Health Commission and Ministry of Science and Technology of People's Republic of China. For the Chinese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To assess the risk of spontaneous preterm birth (sPTB) associated with genital mycoplasma infection in asymptomatic women. Prospective cohort. Public and private health services in Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil. A cohort of 1349 asymptomatic women with a singleton pregnancy at 20-25 weeks of gestation. Participants completed a sociodemographic and clinical history questionnaire during the prenatal visit and provided cervicovaginal samples for the evaluation of Mycoplasma hominis (Mh), Ureaplasma spp. and bacterial vaginosis (BV). For gestational outcome, information about the delivery was assessed and sPTB was defined as a birth that occurred before 37 weeks of gestation. The association between variables and the risk of sPTB was evaluated using logistic regression analysis to estimate the odds ratios (ORs). Genital mycoplasma infection and prematurity. The prevalence of sPTB and genital mycoplasma was 6.8 and 18%, respectively. The infection was not a risk factor for sPTB (aOR 0.66, 95% CI 0.32-1.35), even when Mh and Ureaplasma spp. were found together (P = 0.83). Pregnant women with genital mycoplasma infections had greater BV (P < 0.0001), but this vaginal microbiota condition was not associated with sPTB (P = 0.35). Regarding the risk factors associated with sPTB, a previous history of sPTB (aOR 12.06, 95% CI 6.21-23.43) and a cervical length of ≤2.5 cm (aOR 3.97, 95% CI 1.67-9.47) were significant. Genital mycoplasma infection was not a risk factor for sPTB, even in the presence of other abnormal vaginal microbiota. Genital mycoplasma infection was not a risk for sPTB, even when associated with bacterial vaginosis (BV).

Flexible visitation policies in hospitals are an important component of care that contributes to reduced stress and increased satisfaction among patients and their family members. Early evidence suggests restricted visitation policies enacted in hospitals during the COVID-19 pandemic are having unintended consequences on patients, family members and healthcare providers. There is a need for a comprehensive summary of the impacts of restricted visitation policies on key stakeholders and approaches to mitigate that impact. We will conduct a scoping review as per the Arksey-O'Malley 5-stage scoping review method and the Scoping Review Methods Manual by the Joanna Briggs Institute. We will search relevant electronic databases (eg, CINAHL, MEDLINE, PsycINFO), grey literature and preprint repositories. We will include all study designs including qualitative and quantitative methodologies (excluding protocols) as well as reports, opinions and editorials, to identify the broad impact of restricted hospital visitation policies due to the COVID-19 pandemic on patients, family members or healthcare providers of hospitalised patients, and approaches taken or proposed to mitigate this impact. Two reviewers will calibrate the screening criteria and data abstraction form and will independently screen studies and abstract the data. Narrative synthesis with thematic analysis will be performed. Ethical approval is not applicable as this review will be conducted on published literature only. This scoping review will identify, describe and categorise impacts of restricted hospital visitation policies due to the COVID-19 pandemic on patients, family members and healthcare providers of hospitalised patients, and approaches that have been taken to mitigate impact. We will provide a comprehensive synthesis by developing a framework of restricted visitation policies and associated impacts. Our results will inform the development of consensus statements on restricted visitation policies to be implemented in future pandemics. CRD42020221662.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Involuntary treatment orders are increasingly being used around the world to allow the treatment of individuals living with a mental illness deemed incapable of giving consent and who are actively refusing treatment. The use of involuntary treatment orders can impact the nurse-patient therapeutic relationship, which is essential to offer quality care and promote recovery. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Nurses and patients do not agree on the possibility to develop a therapeutic relationship, with nurses believing they can build a bond with the patients despite the challenges imposed by the involuntary treatment order, and patients rejecting this possibility. Nurses caring for patients on involuntary treatment orders feel obligated to apply the conditions of this measure, even if it damages the relationship with their patients. This difficult aspect of their work leads them to question their role in relation to the management of involuntary treatment orders. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Nurses need to be aware of the reasons why patients on involuntary treatment orders do not believe in the possibility of building a therapeutic relationship. Nurses need to reflect on and express their concerns about the damaging effects that managing involuntary treatment orders conditions can have on the nurse-patient therapeutic relationship. ABSTRACT: Introduction Involuntary treatment orders (ITO) can impact the nurse-patient therapeutic relationship (TR) negatively. Despite the increasing use of ITOs around the world, few studies have explored their influence on the TR from the perspectives of nurses and patients. Aim To describe the TR in the context of ITOs as reported by nurses and individuals living with a mental illness. Method Secondary data analysis of qualitative interviews with nurses (n = 9) and patients (n = 6) was performed using content analysis. Results Participants described the TR as fundamentally embedded in a power imbalance amplified by the ITO, which was discussed through the conflicting roles of nurses, the legal constraints imposed on patients and nurses, the complex relation between the ITO and the TR, and the influence of mental healthcare settings' context. Discussion Nurses and patients' views were opposed, questioning the authenticity of the relationship. Implications for Practice Nurses should be aware of the patients' lack of faith in the TR to ensure that they are sensitive to patients' behaviours that may falsely suggest that a relationship is established. Further studies should explore ways to alleviate the burden of the management of ITOs on nurses and allow for a trusting relationship to be build.

To describe the types of decision-making support interventions offered to racial and ethnic minority adults diagnosed with breast or prostate cancer and to draw any associations between these interventions and patient-reported quality of life (QoL) outcomes. We conducted literature searches in five bibliographic databases. Studies were screened through independent review and assessed for quality. Results were analyzed using inductive qualitative methods to determine thematic commonalities and synthesized in narrative form. Searches across five databases yielded 2496 records, which were screened by title/abstract and full-text to identify 10 studies meeting inclusion criteria. The use of decision aids (DAs), trained personnel, delivery models and frameworks, and educational materials were notable decision-making support interventions. Analysis revealed six thematic areas: 1) Personalized reports; 2) Effective communication; 3) Involvement in decision-making; 4) Health literacy; 5) Social support; and 6) Feasibility in clinical setting. Evidence suggests decision-making support interventions are associated with positive outcomes of racial and ethnic minorities with patient-reported factors like improved patient engagement, less decisional regret, higher satisfaction, improved communication, awareness of health literacy and cultural competence. Future decision-making interventions for racial and ethnic minority cancer patients should focus on social determinants of health, social support systems, and clinical outcomes like QoL and survival.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Coercive measures such as seclusion are used to maintain the safety of patients and others in psychiatric care. The use of coercive measures can lead to harm among patients and staff. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study is the first of its kind to rely on video observation to expose safety hazards in seclusion events that have not been reported previously in the literature. The actions that both patients and staff take during seclusion events can result in various safety hazards. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Constant monitoring of patients during seclusion is important for identifying safety hazards and intervening to prevent harm. Nursing staff who use seclusion need to be aware of how their actions can contribute to safety hazards and how they can minimize their potential for harm ABSTRACT: Introduction Seclusion is used to maintain safety in psychiatric care. There is still a lack of knowledge on potential safety hazards related to seclusion practices. Aim To identify safety hazards that might jeopardize the safety of patients and staff in seclusion events in psychiatric hospital care. Method A descriptive design with non-participant video observation was used. The data consisted of 36 video recordings, analysed with inductive thematic analysis. Results Safety hazards were related to patient and staff actions. Patient actions included aggressive behaviour, precarious movements, escaping, falling, contamination and preventing visibility. Staff actions included leaving hazardous items in a seclusion room, unsafe administration of medication, unsecured use of restraints and precarious movements and postures. Discussion This is the first observational study to identify safety hazards in seclusion, which may jeopardize the safety of patients and staff. These hazards were related to the actions of patients and staff. Implications for Practice Being better aware of possible safety hazards could help prevent adverse events during patient seclusion events. It is therefore necessary that nursing staff are aware of how their actions might impact their safety and the safety of the patients. Video observation is a useful method for identifying safety hazards. However, its use requires effort to safeguard the privacy and confidentiality of those included in the videos.

The antenatal screening strategy remains inadequate for eliminating congenital syphilis. To further eliminate maternal fetal transmission, preconception syphilis screening is considered an option. In this study, we investigated syphilis seropositivity and intra-couple discordance among married couples planning a pregnancy in China to provide essential baseline evidence for preconception syphilis screening. Population-based survey. National preconception registered data. Married Chinese couples planning conception within 6 months between 2013 and 2018. Syphilis was screened using rapid plasma reagin (RPR); infection self-reporting and sociodemographic characteristics were collected through questionnaires and medical records, respectively. r 3.2.2 and arcgis 10.2 were used for statistical analyses and geographic mapping. RPR seropositivity. Among 31 955 041 couples, 29 737 172 (93.06%) had complete RPR results for both spouses; of those, 0.62% (186 100) were seropositive, with dramatic intra-couple discordance, with 0.33% positivity in wives, 0.24% positivity in husbands and 0.05% positivity in both spouses. Across time, both seropositivity and intra-couple discordance remained stable. Seropositivity in different regions varied significantly, with provincial rates ranging geographically from Tibet (0.8%) to Hebei (0.2%) (P < 0.05). Economic level was an independent factor for this regional variation, with seropositivity increasing as gross domestic product income decreased (P < 0.05). Intra-couple discordance in seropositivity for syphilis is notable among couples, with a considerable rate of pre-existing syphilis before pregnancy. Thus, screening both spouses during integrated preconception health care is recommended for further eliminating maternal-fetal transmission. Intra-couple discordance in seropositivity for syphilis is notable among couples, with a considerable rate of pre-existing syphilis before pregnancy. Screening both spouses during integrated preconception health care is recommended to further eliminate maternal-fetal transmission.

Greater facial asymmetry has been consistently found in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) relative to children without ASD. There is substantial evidence that both facial structure and the recurrence of ASD diagnosis are highly heritable within a nuclear family. Furthermore, sub-clinical levels of autistic-like behavioural characteristics have also been reported in first-degree relatives of individuals with ASD, commonly known as the 'broad autism phenotype'. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to examine whether a broad autism phenotype expresses as facial asymmetry among 192 biological parents of autistic individuals (134 mothers) compared to those of 163 age-matched adults without a family history of ASD (113 females). Using dense surface-modelling techniques on three dimensional facial images, we found evidence for greater facial asymmetry in parents of autistic individuals compared to age-matched adults in the comparison group (p = 0.046, d = 0.21 [0.002, 0.42]). Considering previous findings and the current results, we conclude that facial asymmetry expressed in the facial morphology of autistic children may be related to heritability factors. LAY ABSTRACT: In a previous study, we showed that autistic children presented with greater facial asymmetry than non-autistic children. In the current study, we examined the amount of facial asymmetry shown on three-dimensional facial images of 192 parents of autistic children compared to a control group consisting of 163 similarly aged adults with no known history of autism. Although parents did show greater levels of facial asymmetry than those in the control group, this effect is statistically small. We concluded that the facial asymmetry previously found in autistic children may be related to genetic factors.

CME/Answers: Self-Determined Dying: The Challenge of Medical End-of-Life Decisions 

Kentucky has one of the highest rectal cancer incidences in the United States. High poverty rates have led to poor insurance coverage and inadequate access to care. The treatment of locally advanced rectal cancer utilizes a multimodal regimen requiring regular access to expert care. The rate of receipt of neoadjuvant therapy in Kentucky is unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the rate and factors associated with the receipt of neoadjuvant therapy for localized advanced rectal cancer in Kentucky and the effect on overall survival. This is a retrospective database review. This study was conducted by utilizing the Kentucky Cancer Registry at an academic center. All patients diagnosed with stage II/III rectal adenocarcinoma from 2005 to 2015 in the Commonwealth of Kentucky were included. The primary outcomes measured were the factors associated with nonreceipt of neoadjuvant therapy and overall survival. Of 1896 patients, only 46.8% received neoadjuvant therapy. Factors associated with not receiving neoadjuvant therapy included older age, female sex, low education level, high poverty level, and treatment at nonacademic centers. Survival analysis demonstrated significantly improved survival in patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy compared with other treatment regimens. This study was limited by the retrospective nature of the review and by unmeasured confounders. Our study was the first to evaluate the factors behind the low rates of neoadjuvant therapy for locally advanced rectal cancer in Kentucky. Neoadjuvant therapy in this population is beneficial for survival; efforts should be made in policy and education with focus on older patients, female patients, and treatment at nonacademic centers. Centralization of rectal cancer care improves outcomes, but we must be aware of the effect it may have on disparate populations with poor access. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B596. ANTECEDENTES:El estado de Kentucky tiene una de las mayores incidencias de cáncer de recto en los EE. UU. Debido a una alta tasa de pobreza, el porcentaje de la población que cuenta con seguro de salud, es muy limitado, y por lo tanto el acceso a una atención de alto nivel es muy bajo. El tratamiento del cáncer de recto localmente avanzado, es multidisciplinario, lo que exige acceso y disponibilidad a un grupo experto. Se desconoce la tasa de pacientes que reciben terapia neoadyuvante en Kentucky.OBJETIVO:Establecer la tasa y los factores asociados con el uso de terapia neoadyuvante en el tratamiento del cáncer de recto localmente avanzado en Kentucky, y su efecto en la supervivencia global.DISEÑO:Revisión retrospectiva de una base de datos.ESCENARIO:Este estudio se llevó a cabo utilizando el Registro de Cáncer de Kentucky en un centro académico.PACIENTES:Se incluyen todos los pacientes diagnosticados con adenocarcinoma de recto, de la Mancomunidad (Commonwealth) de Kentucky, en estadio II / III entre 2005 y 2015.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:Establecer los factores asociados con el hecho de no recibir terapia neoadyuvante; y establecer la supervivencia global.RESULTADOS:De 1896 pacientes evaluados, solo el 46,8% recibió terapia neoadyuvante. Los factores asociados, para no haber recibido terapia neoadyuvante fueron: la edad avanzada, sexo femenino, bajo nivel educativo, alto nivel de pobreza y tratamiento en centros no académicos. El análisis de la supervivencia mostró una supervivencia significativamente mejor en los pacientes que recibieron terapia neoadyuvante en comparación con otros esquemas de tratamiento.LIMITACIONES:Revisión retrospectiva, factores de confusión no medidos.CONCLUSIONES:Nuestro estudio ha sido el primero en evaluar los factores determinantes de las bajas tasas de terapia neoadyuvante para el tratamiento del cáncer de recto localmente avanzado en Kentucky. La terapia neoadyuvante mejora y favorece la supervivencia en esta población, por lo tanto se deben hacer esfuerzos en las políticas de salud, así como en educación, enfocados a los pacientes mayores, pacientes femeninas y tratamiento en centros no académicos. El centralizar la atención del cáncer de recto, mejora los resultados, pero debemos ser conscientes del efecto que puede tener en poblaciones desiguales económicamente, con acceso deficiente a la posibilidad de recibir atención de alto nivel. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B596.

To identify the most used social networks and the most consumed contents by women seeking support and further understanding of breastfeeding/breast milk. An integrative literature review was performed using the Psychology & Behavioral Sciences Collection, MEDLINE Complete, CINAHL Complete, MedicLatina, Academic Search Complete and ERIC databases. The search was conducted in April, 2020. The inclusion criteria were: publications in Portuguese, English or Spanish with several keywords, such as "Breastfeeding", "Social Networking", "Social Media", "Breastfeeding Promotion", in the title and in the abstract, with the combination of the Boolean operators "AND" and "OR", in original articles of primary source, which were available in full text and were published between 2015 and 2020. Out of the 93 articles that were first examined, 10 were used in the descriptive summary. Studies from the United States, Sweden, New Zealand, Brazil, Australia, Indonesia, and Switzerland were included in the review. Women were found to use several social networks, which is facilitated by an easy access to the Internet and to its content through several electronic resources, often using more than one device simultaneously. Most issues were universally recognized as some of the most common reasons for interrupting breastfeeding. The analyzed studies show that women seek to clarify their doubts outside the traditional health services' environment, using Facebook, apps, websites, online videos, podcasts and e-mail. We stress the importance of these support groups for promoting breastfeeding and the need for health professionals to introduce themselves in social networks to reach mothers.

The annual meeting of the Society for Epidemiologic Research (SER) is a major forum for sharing new research and promoting the career development of participants. Because of this, evaluating representation in key presentation formats is critical. For the 3,257 presentations identified at the 2015-2017 SER annual meetings, we evaluated presenter characteristics, including gender, affiliation, subject area, and h-index, and representation in 3 highlighted presentation formats: platform talks (n = 382), invited symposium talks (n = 273), and chairing a concurrent contributed session or symposium (n = 188). Data were abstracted from SER records, abstract booklets, and programs. Gender was assessed using GenderChecker software, and h-index was determined using the Scopus application programming interface. Log-binomial models were adjusted for participant characteristics and conference year. In adjusted models, women were less likely than men to present an invited symposium talk (relative risk = 0.60, 95% confidence interval: 0.45, 0.81) compared with all participants with accepted abstracts. Researchers from US public universities, US government institutions, and international institutions were less likely to present a symposium talk or to chair a concurrent contributed session or symposium than were researchers from US private institutions. The research areas that were most represented in platform talks were epidemiologic methods, social epidemiology, and cardiovascular epidemiology. Our findings suggest differences in representation by gender, affiliation, and subject area after accounting for h-index.

Generalizing experiences to guide decision-making in novel situations is a hallmark of flexible behavior. Cognitive maps of an environment or task can theoretically afford such flexibility, but direct evidence has proven elusive. In this study, we found that discretely sampled abstract relationships between entities in an unseen two-dimensional social hierarchy are reconstructed into a unitary two-dimensional cognitive map in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. We further show that humans use a grid-like code in entorhinal cortex and medial prefrontal cortex for inferred direct trajectories between entities in the reconstructed abstract space during discrete decisions. These grid-like representations in the entorhinal cortex are associated with decision value computations in the medial prefrontal cortex and temporoparietal junction. Collectively, these findings show that grid-like representations are used by the human brain to infer novel solutions, even in abstract and discrete problems, and suggest a general mechanism underpinning flexible decision-making and generalization.

CME: Self-Determined Dying: The Challenge of Medical End-of-Life Decisions 

Critical care in low-income and low-middle income countries (LLMICs) is an underdeveloped component of the healthcare system. Given the increasing growth in demand for critical care services in LLMICs, understanding the current capacity to provide critical care is imperative to inform policy on service expansion. Thus, our aim is to describe the provision of critical care in LLMICs with respect to patients, providers, location of care and services and interventions delivered. We will search PubMed/MEDLINE, Web of Science and EMBASE for full-text original research articles available in English describing critical care services that specify the location of service delivery and describe patients and interventions. We will restrict our review to populations from LLMICs (using 2016 World Bank classifications) and published from 1 January 2008 to 1 January 2020. Two-reviewer agreement will be required for both title/abstract and full text review stages, and rate of agreement will be calculated for each stage. We will extract data regarding the location of critical care service delivery, the training of the healthcare professionals providing services, and the illnesses treated according to classification by the WHO Universal Health Coverage Compendium. Reviewed and exempted by the Stanford University Office for Human Subjects Research and IRB on 20 May 2020. The results of this review will be disseminated through scholarly publication and presentation at regional and international conferences. This review is designed to inform broader WHO, International Federation for Emergency Medicine and partner efforts to strengthen critical care globally. CRD42019146802.

Little is known about the effect of changes in mobility at the subcity level on subsequent COVID-19 incidence, which is particularly relevant in Latin America, where substantial barriers prevent COVID-19 vaccine access and non-pharmaceutical interventions are essential to mitigation efforts. We aimed to examine the longitudinal associations between population mobility and COVID-19 incidence at the subcity level across a large number of Latin American cities. In this longitudinal ecological study, we compiled aggregated mobile phone location data, daily confirmed COVID-19 cases, and features of urban and social environments to analyse population mobility and COVID-19 incidence at the subcity level among cities with more than 100 000 inhabitants in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Guatemala, and Mexico, from March 2 to Aug 29, 2020. Spatially aggregated mobile phone data were provided by the UN Development Programme in Latin America and the Caribbean and Grandata; confirmed COVID-19 cases were from national government reports and population and socioeconomic factors were from the latest national census in each country. We used mixed-effects negative binomial regression for a time-series analysis, to examine longitudinal associations between weekly mobility changes from baseline (prepandemic week of March 2-9, 2020) and subsequent COVID-19 incidence (lagged by 1-6 weeks) at the subcity level, adjusting for urban environmental and socioeconomic factors (time-invariant educational attainment, residential overcrowding, population density [all at the subcity level], and country). We included 1031 subcity areas, representing 314 Latin American cities, in Argentina (107 subcity areas), Brazil (416), Colombia (82), Guatemala (20), and Mexico (406). In the main adjusted model, we observed an incidence rate ratio (IRR) of 2·35 (95% CI 2·12-2·60) for COVID-19 incidence per log unit increase in the mobility ratio (vs baseline) during the previous week. Thus, 10% lower weekly mobility was associated with 8·6% (95% CI 7·6-9·6) lower incidence of COVID-19 in the following week. This association gradually weakened as the lag between mobility and COVID-19 incidence increased and was not different from null at a 6-week lag. Reduced population movement within a subcity area is associated with a subsequent decrease in COVID-19 incidence among residents of that subcity area. Policies that reduce population mobility at the subcity level might be an effective COVID-19 mitigation strategy, although they should be combined with strategies that mitigate any adverse social and economic consequences of reduced mobility for the most vulnerable groups. Wellcome Trust. For the Spanish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To apply the iceberg model, quantifying absolute and relative incidence, to the four main causes of maternal morbidity and mortality in Ireland: haemorrhage, hypertension, sepsis and thrombosis. Secondary analysis of national data on maternal morbidity and mortality. Republic of Ireland. Approximately 715 000 maternities, 1 200 000 maternal hospitalisations, 2138 cases of severe maternal morbidity (SMM) and 54 maternal deaths. Incidence rates and case-fatality ratios were calculated. Maternal death, SMM and hospitalisation. At the 'tip of the iceberg', the incidence of maternal death per 10 000 maternities was 0.09 (95% CI 0.03-0.20) due to thrombosis and 0.03 (95% CI 0-0.11) due to haemorrhage, hypertension disorders or sepsis. For one death due to thrombosis there were 35 cases of pulmonary embolism and 257 thrombosis hospitalisations. For one death due to eclampsia, there were 58 eclampsia cases, 13 040 hospitalisations with pre-existing hypertension and 40 781 hospitalisations with gestational hypertension. For one death due to pregnancy-related sepsis, there were 92 cases of septicaemic shock and 9005 hospitalisations with obstetric sepsis. For one maternal death due to haemorrhage, there were 1029 cases of major obstetric haemorrhage and 53 715 maternal hospitalisations with haemorrhage. For every 100 maternities, there were approximately 16 hospitalisations associated with haemorrhage, 12 associated with hypertension disorders, three with sepsis and 0.2 with thrombosis. Haemorrhage and hypertension disorders are leading causes of maternal morbidity in Ireland but they have very low case fatality. This indicates that these morbidities are managed effectively but their prevention requires more focus. Study shows that haemorrhage and hypertension are main causes of #maternalmorbidity in Ireland. Timely interventions for #maternalhealth and focus on prevention of severe and non-severe morbidities are needed. @NPEC #maternityservices #clinicalaudit #qualityimprovement.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders may perceive stigma and suffer from mental health problems. Perceived stigma is related to poor mental health among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. The social support deterioration deterrence model proposes that stressors (e.g. perceived stigma) negatively affect mental health via reduced perceived social support. To the best of the present authors' knowledge, the model has never been tested in the context of perceived stigma among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The paper used structural equation modelling to show that the social support deterioration deterrence model could explain the relationship between perceived stigma and depression among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. Perceived support from family and perceived support from friends are mediators in the association between perceived stigma and depression among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Psychosocial interventions to increase perceived support from family and friends would be helpful in addressing perceived stigma effects on mental health. ABSTRACT: Introduction Although the relationship between perceived stigma and mental health outcomes is documented in the existing literature, very few studies have investigated the mechanism linking perceived stigma and mental health outcomes among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. To the best of the present authors' knowledge, the social support deterioration deterrence model has never been tested in the context of perceived stigma among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. Aim/Question Guided by the social support deterioration deterrence model, the present study investigated the mediating role of perceived support from three types of social network members (i.e. significant others, family members, and friends) in the association between perceived stigma and depression in individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders. Method The study employed a cross-sectional survey design comprising 300 participants diagnosed with substance use disorders in Taiwan. Results Results of a structural equation modelling analysis indicated that perceived stigma was significantly associated with depression. The relationship between perceived stigma and depression was partially mediated by perceived family support and perceived friend support. Discussion Consistent with the prediction of the social support deterioration deterrence model, the negative effect of perceived stigma on depression for individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders is through the mediating effect of social support. Implications for practices Based on the present study's results, psychosocial interventions to increase perceived support from family and friends would be helpful in addressing negative effects of perceived stigma on mental health among individuals diagnosed with substance use disorders.

Reports an error in "Distinguishing the need for crisis mental health services among college students" by Kate Sapadin and Beth L. G. Hollander (

The accelerated approval pathway for new drugs in the United States is often praised but faces growing criticism of whether it is finding the appropriate balance between uncertainty, access and cost. To support efforts to strengthen the pathway, this paper provides an analysis of key concerns and the advantages and disadvantages of ten potential policy reforms - those achievable through the US FDA action alone, and those that would require a combination of government, payer and life science industry actions. Accelerated approval sits at the heart of many of the controversies regarding drug approvals and pricing, and this analysis provides perspectives on how best to strengthen the pathway within the broader landscape of an innovative US healthcare system.

The concept of death is abstract, complex and has a number of meanings. Thus, its understanding and the approach taken to it depend, to a large extent, on aspects such as age, culture, training and religion. Nursing students have regular contact with the process of death and so it is of great interest to understand the attitudes they have towards it. As we live in a plural society it is even more interesting to not only understand the attitudes of Spanish students but, also, those of students coming from other countries. In the present article, we seek to identify and compare the attitudes held by nursing degree students at Hekima-Santé University (Senegal) and the University of Huelva (Spain) about end of life processes. The study identifies elements that condition attitudes and coping with death, whilst considering curricular differences with regards to specific end of life training. A descriptive, cross-sectional and multi-center study was conducted. The overall sample (N = 142) was divided into groups: Hekima-Santé University (Dakar, Senegal) and the University of Huelva (Huelva, Spain). The measurement instruments used were an ad-hoc questionnaire and Bugen´s Coping with Death Scale. Statistically significant differences (p = 0.005, 95%CI) were found in relation to overall Bugen Scale scores. We can confirm that specialized end of life training (University of Huelva, Spain) did not lead to better coping when compared with a population whose academic curriculum did not provide specific training and who engaged in more religious practices (Hekima-Santé University, Senegal). In cultures where religion not only influences the spiritual dimension of the individual, but acts in the ethical and moral system and consequently in the economic, educational and family sphere, the accompaniment at the end of life transcends the formative plane. Considering the plural society in which we live, the training that integrates the Degree in Nursing with regard to the care of the final process, must be multidimensional in which spirituality and faith are integrated, working emotional and attentional skills, as well as cultural competence strategies in this process.

Although evidence suggest that many slum dwellers in low- and middle-income countries have the most difficulty accessing family planning (FP) services, there are limited workable interventions/models for reaching slum communities with FP services. This review aimed to identify existing interventions and service delivery models for providing FP services in slums, and as well examine potential impact of such interventions and service delivery models in low- and middle-income settings. We searched and retrieved relevant published studies on the topic from 2000 to 2020 from e-journals, health sources and six electronic databases (MEDLINE, Global Health, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO and Web of Science). Grey and relevant unpublished literature (e.g., technical reports) were also included. For inclusion, studies should have been published in a low- and middle-income country between 2000 and 2020. All study designs were included. Review articles, protocols or opinion pieces were excluded. Search results were screened for eligible articles and reports using a pre-defined criterion. Descriptive statistics and narrative syntheses were produced to summarize and report findings. The search of the e-journals, health sources and six electronic databases including grey literature and other unpublished materials produced 1,260 results. Following screening for title relevance, abstract and full text, nine eligible studies/reports remained. Six different types of FP service delivery models were identified: voucher schemes; married adolescent girls' club interventions; Willows home-based counselling and referral programme; static clinic and satellite clinics; franchised family planning clinics; and urban reproductive health initiatives. The urban reproductive health initiatives were the most dominant FP service delivery model targeting urban slums. As regards the impact of the service delivery models identified, the review showed that the identified interventions led to improved targeting of poor urban populations, improved efficiency in delivery of family planning service, high uptake or utilization of services, and improved quality of family planning services. This review provides important insights into existing family planning service delivery models and their potential impact in improving access to FP services in poor urban slums. Further studies exploring the quality of care and associated sexual and reproductive health outcomes as a result of the uptake of these service delivery models are essential. Given that the studies were reported from only 9 countries, further studies are needed to advance knowledge on this topic in other low-middle income countries where slum populations continue to rise.

Cardiometabolic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes, are leading causes of death and disability worldwide. Modern advances in population-level disease surveillance are necessary and may inform novel opportunities for precision public health approaches to disease prevention. Electronic data sources, such as social media and consumer rewards points systems, have expanded dramatically in recent decades. These non-traditional datasets may enhance traditional clinical and public health datasets and inform cardiometabolic disease surveillance and population health interventions. However, the scope of non-traditional electronic datasets and their use for cardiometabolic disease surveillance and population health interventions has not been previously reviewed. The primary objective of this review is to describe the scope of non-traditional electronic datasets, and how they are being used for cardiometabolic disease surveillance and to inform interventions. The secondary objective is to describe the methods, such as machine learning and natural language processing, that have been applied to leverage these datasets. We will conduct a scoping review following recommended methodology. Search terms will be based on the three central concepts of non-traditional electronic datasets, cardiometabolic diseases and population health. We will search EMBASE, MEDLINE, CINAHL, Scopus, Web of Science and Cochrane Library peer-reviewed databases and will also conduct a grey literature search. Articles published from 2000 to present will be independently screened by two reviewers for inclusion at abstract and full-text stages, and conflicts will be resolved by a separate reviewer. We will report this data as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews. No ethics approval is required for this protocol and scoping review, as data will be used only from published studies with appropriate ethics approval. Results will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed publication.

Better alignment of opioid prescription quantities with patient need could help reduce excessive prescribing. The study sought to develop an institutional prescribing guideline based on defined opioid consumption patterns after inpatient colorectal operations. This was a retrospective cohort study. The study was conducted at a single tertiary care center. Patients who underwent elective major colorectal procedures between July 2018 and January 2019 were included. The study measured prescription and consumption quantities measured as equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills. Patients were categorized into 3 groups based on consumption in the 24-hour period before discharge: tier 1 consumed 0 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills (n = 53), tier 2 consumed 0.1 to 3.0 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills (n = 25), and tier 3 consumed >3.0 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills (n = 22). Average prescription quantity was 17.5 ± 10.5 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills (range, 0-78). Patients consumed a mean of 6.7 ± 10.9 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills after discharge and had 10.8 ± 10.2 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pill excess, whereas 51% of patients consumed no pills. Opioid consumption was significantly different between each tier (p < 0.001). A prescribing guideline was developed to satisfy the majority of patients: 0 equianalgesic oxycodone 5-mg pills if tier 1, 12 pills if tier 2, and 30 pills if tier 3. Tiered guideline adoption could reduce prescribed pills by 45% and excess pills per prescription by 73%. Patient history of IBD was independently associated with increased odds of exceeding the guideline (adjusted OR = 7.2 (95% CI, 1.6-32.6)). The study was limited by its single-center, retrospective design and that outpatient opioid consumption was self-reported. Following hospital discharge after major colorectal surgery, more than half of patients consumed no opioid pills, and 62% of prescribed opioids were in excess. Outpatient opioid consumption was highly associated with inpatient opioid use in the 24 hours before discharge. Prospective validation of this prescribing guideline is needed, but adoption could reduce excessive prescribing. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B575. ANTECEDENTES:Una mejor alineación de las cantidades de prescripción de opioides con las necesidades del paciente podría ayudar a reducir la prescripción excesiva.OBJETIVO:El estudio buscó desarrollar una guía institucional de prescripción basada en patrones definidos de consumo de opioides luego de cirugías colorrectales hospitalarias.DISEÑO:Estudio de cohorte retrospectivo.ENTORNO CLÍNICO:El estudio se llevó a cabo en un solo centro de atención terciaria.PACIENTES:Pacientes que se sometieron a procedimientos colorrectales mayores electivos entre julio de 2018 y enero de 2019.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:El estudio midió las cantidades de prescripción y consumo medidas como píldoras de 5 mg de oxicodona equianalgésica (EOP).RESULTADOS:Los pacientes se clasificaron en tres grupos según el consumo en el período de 24 horas antes del egreso: el nivel 1 consumió 0 EOP (n = 53), el nivel 2 consumió 0,1-3 EOP (n = 25) y el nivel 3 consumió más de 3 EOP (n = 22). La cantidad promedio de prescripción fue 17,5 (± 10,5) EOP (rango: 0-78). Los pacientes consumieron una media de 6,7 (± 10,9) EOP posterior al egreso y tuvieron un exceso de 10,8 (± 10,2) EOP, mientras que el 51% de los pacientes no consumieron píldoras. El consumo de opioides fue significativamente diferente entre cada nivel (p <0,001). Se desarrolló una guía de prescripción para satisfacer a la mayoría de los pacientes: 0 EOP del nivel 1, 12 EOP del nivel 2 y 30 EOP del nivel 3. La adquisición de una guía escalonada podría reducir las píldoras recetadas en un 45% y el exceso de píldoras por receta en un 73%. El historial del paciente de enfermedad inflamatoria intestinal se asoció de forma independiente con un aumento de las probabilidades de superar la guía (ORa 7,2; IC del 95%: 1,6-32,6).LIMITACIONES:El estudio estuvo limitado por su diseño retrospectivo de un solo centro y por el consumo de opioides del paciente ambulatorio el cual fue autoinformado.CONCLUSIONES:Tras el egreso hospitalario de una cirugía colorrectal mayor, más de la mitad de los pacientes no consumieron pastillas opioides y el 62% de los opioides prescritos estaban en exceso. El consumo de opioides como paciente ambulatorio estuvo altamente asociado con el uso de opioides como paciente hospitalizado en las 24 horas previas al egreso. Se necesita una validación prospectiva de esta guía de prescripción, pero la adopción podría reducir la prescripción excesiva. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B575.

Rising maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity (SMM) rates have drawn increasing public health attention. We evaluated patterns of SMM across the Washington State Perinatal Regional Network, in which neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) levels correlate with maternal level of care. Retrospective cohort study using de-identified patient and hospital-level rates of SMM diagnoses and procedures for all women who delivered at 58 hospitals from October 2015 to September 2016. Data were obtained from the Washington State Comprehensive Hospital Abstract Reporting System, which includes inpatient diagnosis with associated Present on Admission flags, procedure, and discharge information derived from hospital billing systems. Deliveries were stratified by having or not having SMM. For each SMM diagnosis, POA rates were tabulated. Hospital SMM rates (all SMM, transfusion only, and SMM excluding transfusion) were grouped according to their NICU level of care (critical access [CA] and 1-4). Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Of 76,961 deliveries, 908 women (1.2%) had any SMM including 533 with transfusion only and 375 with all other SMM diagnoses/procedures. Rates of SMM were highest at level 1 and level 4 hospitals at 1.3 and 1.5%, respectively. Level 1 and CA hospitals had the highest transfusion rate (1.0%), while level 2, 3, and 4 hospitals had progressively lower rates (0.8, 0.7, and 0.5%, respectively;  SMM diagnoses occur most frequently at the centers providing the highest level of care, likely attributable to the regional referral system. However, transfusion rates are increased in level 1/CA hospitals. Efforts to decrease SMM should focus on equipping level 1/CA hospitals with tools to decrease maternal morbidity and improve referral systems. · SMM occurs most frequently at highest level of care.. · Higher transfusion rates occur at lower care level hospitals.. · Most SMM POA occurs at higher level of care..

Suicide is a leading cause of death in children and youth, with suicidal thoughts and suicide attempts (referred to as non-fatal suicidal behaviors (NFSB)) being among its strongest predictors. Positive parenting (e.g., warmth, responsiveness), negative parenting (e.g., control, hostility), and parent-child relationship quality (e.g., trust, communication) have been reported to be associated with differences in NFSB in this population. To date, no comprehensive systematic review has considered together the wide range of parenting factors studied in relation to NFSB, and no meta-analysis of existing findings has been conducted. The present study will critically appraise and synthesize the existing evidence from observational studies that examine the relationships between parenting factors and (i) suicidal ideation and (ii) suicide attempt in children and youth. Studies will be retrieved from APA PsycInfo, MEDLINE, CINAHL, Embase, Scopus, and the Cochrane Library databases. Retrospective, cross-sectional, and longitudinal studies, conducted in clinical and population settings, among youth aged less than 25 years and published as articles and dissertations in English or French will be eligible. Two reviewers will select articles using the Covidence Software after title and abstract screening and full-text assessment, will extract information using double data entry, and will appraise studies' quality using the Quality Assessment Tool for Observational Cohort and Cross-Sectional Studies. Any disagreements will be discussed with a third reviewer. Publication bias will be evaluated using funnel plots and Egger's test. In addition to a narrative summary of results, meta-analyses will be conducted using results from at least three studies. Three-level random effect models will allow to derive pooled estimates from dependent effect sizes (from the same sample or study). In case of significant heterogeneity, moderation analyses will be performed considering participants' characteristics and methodological aspects of studies. The results will be reported according to the PRISMA guidelines, and the certainty of evidence will be assessed using the GRADE approach. In highlighting parenting factors associated with NFSB and in estimating the overall strength of these associations in children and youth, our results will inform further intervention and prevention strategies designed for young people experiencing NFSB and their families. PROSPERO CRD42020165345.

Previous empirical evidence has demonstrated that low-socioeconomic status (SES) communities have higher rates of gastroenteritis; however, there is a paucity of literature on the safety and quality of food (fresh produce) accessible to these communities. The overarching goal of this study was to investigate the microbial safety and quality of romaine lettuce from low- and high-SES neighborhoods in the Houston, TX, area. Loose-leaf romaine lettuce was purchased from low- and high-SES neighborhood retailers, and aerobic plate count, coliform, Escherichia coli, yeast, and mold assays were conducted. In addition, enrichment was performed on all samples for Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella spp., and E. coli O157:H7, and reverse transcriptase PCR analysis was carried out. The results showed that E. coli, coliform, yeast, and mold were present in significantly higher counts (P < 0.05) in produce obtained from low-SES neighborhoods compared with high-SES neighborhoods. The reverse transcriptase PCR results showed that 38% of samples from high-SES areas were positive for S. aureus versus 87% of samples from low-SES areas. None of the samples from high-SES areas were positive for the other pathogens. The samples from low-SES areas were positive for E. coli O157:H7 (4%), Salmonella spp. (53%), L. monocytogenes (13%), and S. aureus (87%). These results demonstrate a significant disparity in the quality and safety of romaine lettuce accessible to low- versus high-SES populations. Future studies can be designed to identify the specific cause of this challenge by investigating the food supply chain.

Despite pervasive variation in the content of laws, legal theorists and anthropologists have argued that laws share certain abstract features and even speculated that law may be a human universal. In the present report, we evaluate this thesis through an experiment administered in 11 different countries. Are there cross-cultural principles of law? In a between-subjects design, participants (N = 3,054) were asked whether there could be laws that violate certain procedural principles (e.g., laws applied retrospectively or unintelligible laws), and also whether there are any such laws. Confirming our preregistered prediction, people reported that such laws cannot exist, but also (paradoxically) that there are such laws. These results document cross-culturally and -linguistically robust beliefs about the concept of law which defy people's grasp of how legal systems function in practice.

Despite the important benefits of a bibliometric approach on mapping a research field, relatively little efforts have previously been conducted to map and analyse the global trends of palliative care (PC)-related research. This bibliometric review aimed to provide an overall picture and systematic mapping of the state of research trends within the field of PC internationally. Scopus and Web of Science databases were searched to retrieve original articles focusing on PC between 2002 and 2020. Searching was conducted on 5 May 2020, and was updated on 6 May 2021. All retrieved articles were assessed by title and abstract, and the bibliometric metadata of those that met the inclusion criteria were downloaded for analysis. The results were analysed by VOSviewer and Gephi software. A total of 19,199 articles met the inclusion criteria. Significant growth of the number of published articles was reported by around five-fold from 2002 to 2020. The USA and UK were the most productive countries in terms of the number of papers published and citations. Weak collaborations were observed between low-income or middle-income countries and high-income countries. Cancer-related PC research was the most common focus. Seven clusters of research were identified and included heart failure and cancer prognosis, nursing home, pain and symptoms management, PC knowledge and attitudes, quality improvement of services, PC ethics, and the ongoing assessment of PC services. There is a need to expand PC-related research to non-cancer diseases. More international research and cross-institutional cooperation is required to address more global PC issues and benefit from wider sharing of expertees, potentially leading to higher quality or more impactful studies. Setting up research agendas and priorities from funding bodies and institutions may also enhance cooperation among researchers.

Loneliness and social isolation are prevalent public health concerns among community-dwelling older adults. One approach that is becoming an increasingly popular method of reducing levels of loneliness and social isolation among older adults is through technology-driven solutions. This protocol outlines a research trajectory whereby a scoping review will be initiated in order to illustrate and map the existing technological approaches that have been utilized to diminish levels of loneliness and social isolation among community-dwelling older adults aged 60 years or older. We will address the question: what are the most common and less used technological approaches to reduce loneliness and social isolation among community-dwelling older adults? A scoping review of Academic Search Premier, AGEline, Global Health, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and Web of Science databases will take place using our search terms including the following: loneliness, social isolation, older adults, elderly, Aged, Aged 80 and over, program, evaluation, trial, intervention, technology, computer, information and communication technology, internet, and robot. The initial electronic search will be supplemented by reviewing the reference lists and review articles to identify any missing studies. To meet study inclusion criteria, intervention studies had to pertain to community-dwelling adults aged 60 years or older, include technological interventions, include loneliness and/or social isolation as outcome variables, and be written in the English language. Two parallel independent assessments of study eligibility will be conducted for the title, abstract, and full-text screens. Any disagreement will be resolved by consensus and a third reviewer consulted to make a decision if consensus is not achieved initially. Finally, the amalgamation of results will be an iterative process whereby reviewers will refine the plan for presenting results after data extraction is completed so that all of the contents of the extraction may be included in the results. The information gleaned in this scoping review will be essential to understand the degree to which technological interventions influence social isolation and loneliness among older adults and identify gaps for further research.

Prior studies suggest neighborhood poverty and deprivation are associated with adverse health outcomes including death, but evidence is limited among persons with HIV, particularly women. We estimated changes in mortality risk from improvement in three measures of area-level socioeconomic context among participants of the Women's Interagency HIV Study. Starting in October 2013, we linked geocoded residential census block groups to the 2015 Area Deprivation Index (ADI) and two 2012-2016 American Community Survey poverty variables, categorized into national tertiles. We used parametric g-computation to estimate, through March 2018, impacts on mortality of improving each income or poverty measure by one and two tertiles maximum versus no improvement. Of 1596 women with HIV (median age 49), 91 (5.7%) were lost to follow-up and 83 (5.2%) died. Most women (62%) lived in a block group in the tertile with the highest proportions of individuals with income:poverty <1; 13% lived in areas in the tertile with the lowest proportions. Mortality risk differences comparing a one-tertile improvement (for those in the two highest poverty tertiles) in income:poverty <1 versus no improvement increased over time; the risk difference was -2.2% (95% confidence interval [CI] = -3.7, -0.64) at 4 years. Estimates from family income below poverty level (-1.0%; 95% CI = -2.7, 0.62) and ADI (-1.5%; 95% CI = -2.8, -0.21) exposures were similar. Consistent results from three distinct measures of area-level socioeconomic environment support the hypothesis that interventions to ameliorate neighborhood poverty or deprivation reduce mortality risk for US women with HIV. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B863.

There is widespread concern over the impact of public health measures, such as lockdowns, associated with COVID-19 on mental health, including suicide. High-quality evidence from low-income and middle-income countries, where the burden of suicide and self-harm is greatest, is scarce. We aimed to determine the effect of the pandemic on hospital presentations for self-poisoning. In this interrupted time-series analysis, we established a new self-poisoning register at the tertiary care Teaching Hospital Peradeniya in Sri Lanka, a lower-middle-income country. Using a standard extraction sheet, data were gathered for all patients admitted to the Toxicology Unit with self-poisoning between Jan 1, 2019, and Aug 31, 2020. Only patients classified by the treating clinician as having intentionally self-poisoned were included. Data on date of admission, age or date of birth, sex, and poisoning method were collected. No data on ethnicity were available. We used interrupted time-series analysis to calculate weekly hospital admissions for self-poisoning before (Jan 1, 2019-March 19, 2020) and during (March 20-Aug 31, 2020) the pandemic, overall and by age (age <25 years vs ≥25 years) and sex. Individuals with missing date of admission were excluded from the main analysis. Between Jan 1, 2019, and Aug 31, 2020, 1401 individuals (584 [41·7%] males, 761 [54·3%] females, and 56 [4·0%] of unknown sex) presented to the hospital with self-poisoning and had date of admission data. A 32% (95% CI 12-48) reduction in hospital presentations for self-poisoning in the pandemic period compared with pre-pandemic trends was observed (rate ratio 0·68, 95% CI 0·52-0·88; p=0·0032). We found no evidence that the impact of the pandemic differed by sex (rate ratio 0·64, 95% CI 0·44-0·94, for females vs 0·85, 0·57-1·26, for males; p This is the first study from a lower-middle-income country to estimate the impact of the pandemic on self-harm (non-fatal) accounting for underlying trends. If the fall in hospital presentations during the pandemic reflects a reduction in the medical treatment of people who have self-poisoned, rather than a true fall in incidence, then public health messages should emphasise the importance of seeking help early. Elizabeth Blackwell Institute University of Bristol, Wellcome Trust, and Centre for Pesticide Suicide Prevention. For the Sinhalese and Tamil translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Approximately one-third of maternal deaths occur postpartum. Little is known about the intersection between the postpartum period, emergency department (ED) use, and opportunities to reduce maternal mortality. The primary objectives of this systematic review are to explore the incidence of postpartum ED use, identify postpartum disease states that are evaluated in the ED, and summarize postpartum ED use by race/ethnicity and payor source. We searched PubMed, Embase, Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), ClinicalTrials.gov, Cochrane CENTRAL, Social Services Abstracts, and Scopus from inception to September 19, 2019. Each identified abstract was screened by two authors; the full-text manuscripts of all studies deemed to be potential candidates were then reviewed by the same two authors and included if they were full-text, peer-reviewed articles in the English language with primary patient data reporting care of a female in the ED in the postpartum period, defined as up to 1 year after the end of pregnancy. A total of 620 were screened, 354 records were excluded and 266 full-text articles were reviewed. Of the 266 full-text articles, 178 were included in the systematic review; of these, 108 were case reports. Incidence of ED use by postpartum females varied from 4.8 to 12.2% in the general population. Infection was the most common reason for postpartum ED evaluation. Young females of minority race and those with public insurance were more likely than whites and those with private insurance to use the ED. As many as 12% of postpartum women seek care in the ED. Young minority women of lower socioeconomic status are more likely to use the ED. Since approximately one-third of maternal deaths occur in the postpartum period, successful efforts to reduce maternal mortality must include ED stakeholders. This study is registered with the Systematic Review Registration (identifier: CRD42020151126). · Up to 12% of postpartum women seek care in the ED.. · One-third of maternal deaths occur postpartum.. · Maternal mortality reduction efforts should include ED stakeholders..

Many women stop breastfeeding before they intend to as they cannot overcome breastfeeding difficulties. Breastfeeding support, as an evidence-based intervention by trained lay or professional breastfeeding support providers, can prevent early unintended cessation. Yet some women report dissatisfaction with support and reluctantly stop breastfeeding despite receiving this intervention. Understanding the experiences which shape how support is provided can inform effective implementation of breastfeeding support interventions. This review aims to synthesise experiences of trained breastfeeding support providers in high income settings and how these may influence their breastfeeding support practices. A qualitative systematic review of trained breastfeeding supporters' experiences of supporting women to breastfeed, as part of a generic healthcare role or focused breastfeeding support role, will be conducted. A systematic search will be performed of the databases: Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL +), MEDLINE ALL, Maternity and Infant Care, EMBASE, APA PsycINFO, Web of Science and Scopus. Title and abstract screening using eligibility criteria will be conducted using Covidence software. Eligible papers will be agreed by the review team following full text screening and reported using PRISMA guidelines. CASP and COREQ tools will assess study methodological quality and quality of reporting. Data will be extracted using a bespoke form and coded, using Excel software for data management. Analysis will involve the three stages of thematic synthesis: initial free coding, development of descriptive and subsequent analytical themes. Confidence in findings will be assessed using the CERQual framework. This review is the first to date to synthesise qualitative evidence on experiences which influence how trained lay and professional providers support women with breastfeeding. Findings will enable deeper understanding of the underpinning mechanisms of breastfeeding support provision and inform the development of tailored interventions to improve breastfeeding rates. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42020207380.

In the future, United States Navy Role 1 and Role 2 shipboard medical departments will be caring for patients during Distributed Maritime Operations in both contested and noncontested austere environments; likely for prolonged periods of time. This literature review examines 25 modern naval mass casualty incidents over a 40-year period representative of naval warfare, routine naval operations, and ship-based health service support of air and land operations. Challenges, lessons learned, and injury patterns are identified to prepare afloat medical departments for the future fight. Literature Review, level V.

When designing any health intervention, it is important to respond to the unequal determinants of health by prioritising the allocation of resources and tailoring interventions based on the disproportionate burden of illness. This approach, called the targeting of priority populations, can prevent a widening of health inequities, particularly those inequities which can be further widened by differences in the uptake of an intervention. The objective of this scoping review is to describe intervention(s) designed to increase the uptake of lung cancer screening, including the health impact on priority populations and to describe knowledge and implementation gaps to inform the design of equitable lung cancer screening. We will conduct a scoping review following the methodological framework developed by Arksey and O'Malley. We will conduct comprehensive searches for lung cancer screening promotion interventions in Ovid Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Library, Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health (CINAHL) and Scopus. We will include published English language peer-reviewed and grey literature published between January 2000 and 2020 that describe an intervention designed to increase the uptake of low-dose CT (LDCT) lung cancer screening in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries. Articles not in English or not describing LDCT will be excluded. Three authors will review retrieved literature in three steps: title, abstract and then full text. Three additional authors will review discrepancies. Authors will extract data from full-text papers into a chart adapted from the Template for Intervention Description and Republication checklist, the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials and a Health Equity Impact Assessment tool. Findings will be presented using a narrative synthesis. The knowledge synthesised will be used to inform the equitable design of lung cancer screening and disseminated through conferences, publications and shared with relevant partners. The study does not require research ethics approval as literature is available online.

Despite the use of a wide variety of improvement tools and approaches, healthcare organisations continue to struggle in several key areas. Complexity-informed approaches have the potential to offer health and social care a new paradigm for understanding, designing, implementing and evaluating solutions, yet so far has failed to gain the traction anticipated some years ago. There is a growing need for high quality syntheses of the existing knowledge base in this area and given the diversity of theory and approaches, a scoping review is the best approach to curate this knowledge. A scoping review of relevant literature from January 2000 to present, using the refined Arksey and O'Malley six-stage framework will be conducted. This protocol will follow the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis Protocols Extension for Scoping Reviews. A three-step search strategy will be used. An initial search of databases will be undertaken to identify key search terms followed by an analysis of retrieved papers title and abstract text words, and of index terms used to describe the articles. A second search using all identified keywords and index terms will then be undertaken across all included databases. Third, the reference lists of identified reports and articles will be searched. Authors of primary articles will be contacted and a search for grey material performed. Finally, a complete search strategy of one major database will be included. As this is a scoping review, ethical approval is not required. The results of the scoping review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal and presented at national and international conferences and will guide a large research project investigating teamwork. All data will be stored in accordance with best General Data Protection Regulation practice. This scoping review protocol has been registered with Open Science Framework.

The experience of homelessness for young people can affect social, emotional, and physical development, resulting in poorer physical and mental health outcomes. To reduce rates of youth homelessness, a better understanding of both risk and resilience is needed to inform future intervention development. This article presents a systematic review of published research reporting risk or resilience factors related to homelessness among young people in Western countries. After thorough examination for inclusion criteria, 665 abstracts of peer-reviewed quantitative studies of risk or resilience factors for homelessness among young people (ages 0-25) that included an adequate comparison group (e.g., not homeless) were selected. After abstract and full-text screening, 16 articles were reviewed. A primary prevention framework was used to create an explanatory model for the onset of homelessness using risk and resilience factors. Common risk factors for youth homelessness included difficulties with family, mental health or substance use problems, a history of problem behaviors, a history of foster care, homelessness as a child, and running away. Common protective factors included a supportive family, a college education, and high socioeconomic status. Findings were integrated into a provisional developmental model of youth homelessness risk. Clinical implications of the model for service development are discussed, and a model for monitoring homelessness risk and resilience factors is proposed. Factors affecting homelessness risk among youths and adults differ, with family, foster care, and schooling playing a much more important role among youths. Findings highlight opportunities for youth homelessness prevention strategies and monitoring.

There is increasing interest in the spatial analysis of suicide data to identify high-risk (often public) locations likely to benefit from access restriction measures. The identification of such locations, however, relies on accurately geocoded data. This study aims to examine the extent to which common completeness and positional spatial errors are present in suicide data due to the underlying geocoding process. Using Australian suicide mortality data from the National Coronial Information System for the period of 2008-2017, we compared the custodian automated geocoding process to an alternate multiphase process. Descriptive and kernel density cluster analyses were conducted to ascertain data completeness (address matching rates) and positional accuracy (distance revised) differences between the two datasets. The alternate geocoding process initially improved address matching from 67.8% in the custodian dataset to 78.4%. Additional manual identification of nonaddress features (such as cliffs or bridges) improved overall match rates to 94.6%. Nearly half (49.2%) of nonresidential suicide locations were revised more than 1,000 m from data custodian coordinates. Spatial misattribution rates were greatest at the smallest levels of geography. Kernel density maps showed clear misidentification of hotspots relying solely on autogeocoded data. Suicide incidents that occur at nonresidential addresses are being erroneously geocoded to centralized fall-back locations in autogeocoding processes, which can lead to misidentification of suicide clusters. Our findings provide insights toward defining the nature of the problem and refining geocoding processes, so that suicide data can be used reliably for the detection of suicide hotspots. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B862.

Medical schools and surgical residencies have seen an increase in the proportion of female matriculants, with 30% of current vascular surgery trainees being women over the past decade. There is widespread focus on increasing diversity in medicine and surgery in an effort to provide optimal quality of patient care and the advancement of science. The presence of gender diversity and opportunities to identify with women in leadership positions positively correlates with women choosing to enter traditionally male-dominated fields. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the representation of women in regional and national vascular surgical societies over the last 20 years. A retrospective review of the meeting programs of vascular surgery societies was performed. Data were collected on abstract presenters, moderators, committee members and chairs, and officers (president, president-elect, vice president, secretary, and treasurer). The data were divided into early (1999-2009) and late (2010-2019) time periods. Five regional and five national societies' data were analyzed, including 139 meetings. The mean percentage of female abstract presenters increased significantly from 10.9% in the early period to 20.6% in the late period (P < .001). Female senior authors increased slightly from 8.7% to 11.5%, but this change was not statistically significant (P = .22). Female meeting moderators increased significantly from 7.8% to 17.2% (P < .001), as well as female committee members increased from 10.9% to 20.3% (P = .003). Female committee chairs increased slightly from 10.9% to 16.9%, but this difference was not statistically significant (P = .13). Female society officers increased considerably from 6.4% to 14.8%. (P = .002). Significant variation was noted between societies, with five societies (three regional and two national) having less than 10% women at the officer level in 2019. There was a wide variation noted between societies in the percentage of female abstract presenters (range, 7.6%-34.9%), senior authors (3.9%-17.9%), and meeting moderators (5.4%-40.7%). Over the past two decades, there has been a significant increase in the representation of women in vascular surgery societies among those presenting scientific work, serving as meeting moderators, and serving as committee members. However, the representation of women among committee chairs, senior authors, and society leadership has not kept up pace with the increase noted at other levels. Efforts to recruit women into the field of vascular surgery as well as to support the professional development of female vascular surgeons are facilitated by the presence of women in leadership roles. Increasing the representation of women in vascular society leadership positions may be a key strategy in promoting gender diversity in the vascular surgery field.

Salification is one of the powerful and widely employed approaches to improve the biopharmaceutical properties of drugs. The FDA's eighty-year trajectory of new drug approvals depicts around one-third of the drugs clinically used as their pharmaceutical salts. Among various cationic and anionic counterions used in FDA-approved pharmaceutical salts, the carboxylic acids have significantly contributed. A total of 94 pharmaceutical salts discovered during 1943-2020 comprises carboxylic acids as counterions with a major contribution of acetate, maleate, tartrate, fumarate, and succinate. Hydrocodone tartrate is the first FDA-approved carboxylate salt approved in 1943. Overall, the analysis shows that fifteen carboxylic acid counterions are present in FDA-approved pharmaceutical salts with a major share of acetate (18 drugs). This review provides an account of FDA-approved carboxylate salts from 1939 to 2020. The decade-wise analysis indicates that 1991-2000 contributed a maximum number of carboxylate salts (24) and least (3) in 1939-1950. The technical advantage of carboxylate salts over free-base or other counterions is also discussed. Graphical Abstract.

The rapid increase in the number of older offenders in many countries presents unique challenges to both correctional and health care systems. In the absence of strong empirical evidence on effective interventions, identifying best practices can help optimize the care and management of this segment of the prisoner population. We conducted a scoping review of care models, prison programs, and different interventions designed to improve the care and management of older offenders. We searched 5 bibliographic databases and other data sources including OpenGrey, agency documents, and government reports published until December 2020. This review employed commonly used steps for conducting a scoping review and applied additional tools to enhance the methodology. After title and abstract screening and full-text review, a total of 34 studies were included in the analysis. Four themes emerged from the review: (a) institutional logics, (b) adaptations, (c) multidisciplinary teams, and (d) person-centered care and management. Best practices identified in this review can help optimize the care and management of older offenders in mainstream prisons. Further action research is recommended to adapt and scale up the interventions.

To review the scientific literature on the role of the nurse in Penitentiary Institutions through the study of care training and ethical implications when offering quality care to the prison population. An integrative review was carried out in Medline, SciELO and LILACS databases. The MeSH and DeCS terms used were: nurse's role, nursing, nurse, nursing education, prison, ethics, ethical issues, job satisfaction, enfermería, penitenciaria, health professionals, nursing care. The types of studies included in this work are literature reviews, and qualitative, quantitative and mixed studies. The CASPe tool was used to assess the methodological quality of selected literature. The review period was October, November and December 2019. A total of 264 articles were obtained, of which 98 were chosen after applying filters corresponding to each database and after discarding duplicate articles. The title and abstract of these articles were read and the established selection criteria were applied, to obtain 18 studies. Finally, after critical reading, 15 articles were selected for this work. The role of the prison nurse is generally unknown. Nursing undergraduate training in this area is limited, exposing a specific training need, which may help these professionals to deal with ethical issues that they may find in their practice, as well as to improve the quality of care for the prison population.

Given the potential of intersectionality to identify the causes of inequalities, there is a growing tendency toward applying it in the field of health. Nevertheless, the extent of the application of intersectionality in designing and implementing health interventions is unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the extent to which previous studies have applied intersectionality and its principles in designing and implementing health interventions. The title and abstract of the articles which were published in different databases e.g. PubMed, Web of Science, Proquest, Embase, Scopus, Cochrane, and PsychInfo were screened. Those articles that met the screening criteria were reviewed in full text. The data about the application of principles of intersectionality, according to the stages heuristic model (problem identification, design & implementation, and evaluation), were extracted through a 38-item researcher-made checklist. Initially, 2677 articles were found through reviewing the target databases. After removing the duplicated ones and screening the titles and abstracts of 1601 studies, 107 articles were selected to be reviewed in detail and 4 articles could meet the criteria. The most frequently considered intersectionality principles were "intersecting categories" and "power", particularly at the stages of 'problem identification' as well as 'design & implementation'. The results showed that "multilevel analysis" principle received less attention; most of the studies conducted the interventions at the micro level and did not aim at bringing about change at structural levels. There was a lack of clarity regarding the attention to some of the main items of principles such as "reflexivity" as well as "social justice and equity". These principles might have been implemented in the selected articles; however, the authors have not explicitly discussed them in their studies. Given the small number of included studies, there is still insufficient evidence within empirical studies to show the implication of intersectionality in designing and conducting health interventions. To operationalize the intersectionality, there is a need to address the principles at various stages of health policies and interventions. To this end, designing and availability of user-friendly tools may help researchers and health policymakers appropriately apply the intersectionality.

This study aimed to explore the experiences of patients, relatives, and health professionals about family presence during emergency care. In this grounded theory, 42 participants were interviewed from October 2016 to February 2017 in 2 Brazilian emergency rooms. Data collection and analysis were based on the constant comparative method. Findings identified that there is a social meaning about family presence during emergency care, which is conditioned, sporadic, and variable, and health professionals are responsible for the decision. The implementation of family systems care in emergency rooms is required to meet the needs of both patients and families. A Supplemental Digital Content video abstract is available at http://links.lww.com/ANS/A30.

Children living in families impacted by parental mental illness are at increased risk of adverse mental and physical health outcomes compared with children living in families unaffected by mental illness. Considered to be a hard-to reach group, it is likely that there are unique barriers for these young people in seeking help for their difficulties. This systematized review synthesizes what is currently known about help-seeking barriers, facilitators and interventions for young people affected by parental mental illness. Three databases were searched, yielding 2556 results and three studies were identified through other sources. Studies were screened on title and abstract review and were excluded if they were published before 2005 or if they did not include the perspectives of young people. At a second stage, full-text articles were screened based on the inclusion criteria. Eleven studies were included for data extraction and quality appraisal. Qualitative and quantitative data synthesis revealed three significant barriers (i) stigma, (ii) family communication and (iii) lack of belonging and shared experience, three key facilitators (i) individual characteristics, (ii) group identification and (iii) anonymity and three primary components of therapeutic interventions (i) psychoeducation, (ii) connection with peers and (iii) accessibility. It was found that stigma towards mental illness is highly salient amongst young people impacted by parental mental illness and has unique effects on their patterns of help-seeking. Help-seeking research amongst this group is still emerging, with a need for greater clarity in operationalisation of help-seeking constructs and more robust methodological designs.

Adolescence is a period of rapid physical growth and transition between childhood to adulthood. However, in many developing countries, nutritional and epidemiological transitions are contributing to surging overnutrition, which, together with prevalent undernutrition, is resulting in the double burden of malnutrition (DBM) among adolescents. Schools as social systems have tremendous but mostly underutilized capacity to facilitate change and address a range of nutritional and associated educational concerns of adolescents and young people. The main objective of this systematic review will be to describe school-based interventions that address the multiple forms of malnutrition, and synthesize their effects on nutrition and educational outcomes among adolescents (10 - 19 - years - old) from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Comprehensive literature searches will be conducted in multiple electronic databases, including Medline (through PubMed), Embase, CENTRAL (through Cochrane Library), CINAHL, and Google Scholar. We will include randomized controlled trials (RCTs), non-RCTs including controlled before-after studies, examining the effects of nutrition interventions on nutrition and educational outcomes among adolescents in LMICs. Two reviewers will independently screen all citations and full-text articles and abstract data. The quality of the included studies will be assessed with the Cochrane Collaboration's revised tool for assessing the risk of bias for RCTs and the Risk Of Bias In Non-randomized Studies of Interventions tool for controlled before-after studies and non-randomized controlled trials. To maximize the power of schools as a platform to reinforce the mutually beneficial relationship between adolescent nutrition and education, it is imperative to develop and implement integrated interventions connecting schools, adolescents, parents, communities, and the health care system. The results of this systematic review may provide a comprehensive state of current knowledge on the effectiveness of school-based interventions to enable future research that maximizes the impact and efficiency of integrated approaches to tackle multiple forms of malnutrition among school-going and out-of-school adolescents. PROSPERO ID: CRD42020211109.

Freedom-restricting measures in Bavarian residential facilities for children, adolescents, and young adults with intellectual disabilities 

An association between child sexual abuse (CSA) and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been documented. However, the temporal relationship between these problems and the roles of trauma-related symptoms or other forms of maltreatment remain unclear. This review aims to synthesize available research on CSA and ADHD, assess the methodological quality of the available research, and recommend future areas of inquiry. Studies were searched in five databases including Medline and PsycINFO. Following a title and abstract screening, 151 full texts were reviewed and 28 were included. Inclusion criteria were sexual abuse occurred before 18 years old, published quantitative studies documenting at least a bivariate association between CSA and ADHD, and published in the past 5 years for dissertations/theses, in French or English. The methodological quality of studies was systematically assessed. Most studies identified a significant association between CSA and ADHD; most studies conceptualized CSA as a precursor of ADHD, but only one study had a longitudinal design. The quality of the studies varied greatly with main limitations being the lack of (i) longitudinal designs, (ii) rigorous multimethod/ multiinformant assessments of CSA and ADHD, and (iii) control for two major confounders: trauma-related symptoms and other forms of child maltreatment. Given the lack of longitudinal studies, the directionality of the association remains unclear. The confounding role of other maltreatment forms and trauma-related symptoms also remains mostly unaddressed. Rigorous studies are needed to untangle the association between CSA and ADHD.

Parental factors in internet and computer game addiction in adolescence: An overview 

Sleep behavior and problems in children and adolescents of a psychiatric day clinic sample: results and requirements for systematic diagnostic 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Relatives of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia experience financial, social, emotional and physical burden. There is a lack of studies on the experience and needs of caregivers of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia in the Arab world. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first qualitative study to reflect the voice of parents, siblings and spouses living with schizophrenia in the Arab world. The study explored the needs of relatives of hospitalized patients. This study revealed some positive elements of caregiving experience, especially among siblings. The concept of stigma resistance may guide the establishment of stigma reduction programmes. Violence towards the relatives or vice versa is a sensitive issue that needs to be addressed and reported. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Nurses should address parents, spouses and siblings' specific needs and challenges to include them in their relatives' treatment plan. Understanding the experience, feelings and needs of relatives living with schizophrenia would enable mental health nurses to provide a range of interventions to help reduce caregivers' burden and promote the positive gains from the caregiving experience. The study emphasizes the need for culturally adapted family interventions to effectively assist relatives in providing care and adjusting to the caregiving role. ABSTRACT: Introduction Relatives of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia often experience positive and negative impacts. Much of the literature on family experience with schizophrenia comes from western culture, and less is known about Arabic speaking countries. There has been no previous attempt to qualitatively investigate the lived experience of relatives of hospitalized patients with schizophrenia in the Arab world. Aim To explore the experience and needs of Omani relatives of hospitalized patients diagnosed with schizophrenia. Method Qualitative semi-structured interviews with twenty relatives of hospitalized patients from Oman. The interviews were analysed using framework analysis. Results Parents, spouses and siblings were confronted with a burden specific to the demand of different life situations, and their needs differ accordingly. The findings showed four themes: burden, stigma, violence and needs. Discussion This study provides insight into the experience of Omani relatives living with schizophrenia. Although the caregiving experience appears negative, some positive elements of caregiving experience were prominent among siblings. Furthermore, the violence phenomenon among individuals with schizophrenia needs to be addressed as a priority. Implications for practice Understanding the experience, feelings and needs of relatives living with schizophrenia would enable mental health nurses to provide a range of interventions to help reduce caregivers' burden and promote the positive gains from the caregiving experience. The concept of stigma resistance in the Arab world may guide the establishment of stigma reduction programmes.

Due to their abstract nature and lack of real-world application, theory development and testing are often difficult concepts for PhD students to embrace, especially within a virtual learning environment. Although experiential learning is a preferred method, there is a lack of evidence regarding its use in online PhD programs. Four PhD nursing students enrolled in a Foundations of Theory course participated in an innovative experiential learning project designed to introduce the process of theory development and testing. Participants, led by a faculty-researcher, tested the applicability of a conceptual model using the Framework Method with the diary of a Holocaust survivor. This experience increased the learners' understanding and appreciation of theory development and testing processes as they relate to the nurse scientist's role. Experiential learning in an online theory course is a viable option to promote learning, student engagement, and professional socialization. 

Adults who as children were adopted into a different linguistic community retain knowledge of their birth language. The possession (without awareness) of such knowledge is known to facilitate the (re)learning of birth-language speech patterns; this perceptual learning predicts such adults' production success as well, indicating that the retained linguistic knowledge is abstract in nature. Adoptees' acquisition of their adopted language is fast and complete; birth-language mastery disappears rapidly, although this latter process has been little studied. Here, 46 international adoptees from China aged four to 10 years, with Dutch as their new language, plus 47 matched non-adopted Dutch-native controls and 40 matched non-adopted Chinese controls, undertook across a two-week period 10 blocks of training in perceptually identifying Chinese speech contrasts (one segmental, one tonal) which were unlike any Dutch contrasts. Chinese controls easily accomplished all these tasks. The same participants also provided speech production data in an imitation task. In perception, adoptees and Dutch controls scored equivalently poorly at the outset of training; with training, the adoptees significantly improved while the Dutch controls did not. In production, adoptees' imitations both before and after training could be better identified, and received higher goodness ratings, than those of Dutch controls. The perception results confirm that birth-language knowledge is stored and can facilitate re-learning in post-adoption childhood; the production results suggest that although processing of phonological category detail appears to depend on access to the stored knowledge, general articulatory dimensions can at this age also still be remembered, and may facilitate spoken imitation.

The COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 has highlighted consistent inequities in incidence, disease severity, and mortality across racial and ethnic minority populations in the United States (US) and beyond. While similar patterns have been observed with previous viral respiratory pathogens, to date, no systematic review has comprehensively documented these disparities or potential contributing factors. In response, this review aims to synthesize data on racial and ethnic disparities in morbidity and mortality due to viral acute respiratory infections (ARI) other than SARS-CoV-2. This review will focus on understanding structural health and social factors to contextualize race and ethnicity driving these disparities in the US. We will conduct a systematic review of studies published from January 1, 2002, onward. Our search will include PubMed/MEDLINE, EBSCO Host-CINAHL Plus, PsycInfo, EMBASE, and Cochrane Library databases to identify relevant articles. We will include studies of any design that describe racial/ethnic disparities associated with viral ARI conducted in the US. Primary outcomes include incidence, disease severity or complication, hospitalization, or death attributed to ARI. Secondary outcomes include uptake of preventive interventions including vaccination, handwashing, social distancing, and wearing masks. Two reviewers will independently screen all citations, full-text articles, and abstract relevant data. Data characterizing individual-, community-, and structural-level factors associated with these disparities will be abstracted to better understand the underlying structural inequities contributing to racial disparities in ARI. We will assess the methodological quality of all studies and will conduct meta-analyses using random effects models if appropriate. Findings from this systematic review will shed light on patterns of racial and ethnic disparities in viral ARI in the United States to support mathematical modeling of epidemic trajectories, intervention impact, and structural drivers of transmission, including structural racism. Moreover, data emerging from this review may reignite pandemic preparedness focused on communities with specific vulnerabilities related to living and working conditions given prevailing structural inequities, thus facilitating improved future pandemic responses to novel or endemic viral respiratory pathogens. PROSPERO CRD42020219771.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Trauma among psychiatric nurses and other healthcare workers is related to workplace violence, but other risk factors may also contribute, including those occurring before, during or after workplace violence. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Most previously identified PTSD risk factors were not tested or supported in research with psychiatric nurses, although there is promising evidence for risk factors including severe or injurious assault, cumulative exposure, burnout, and other worker characteristics. We identify directions for research needed to improve knowledge, including collecting data before nurses experience workplace violence, defining workplace risk factors consistently and conducting and reporting qualitative analysis. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Provide training in risk assessment and violence prevention to psychiatric nurses. Offer mental health support to those exposed to violence, especially with cumulative exposure. ABSTRACT: Introduction Psychiatric nurses are at risk of workplace violence and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). There is limited understanding of pre-trauma and post-trauma risk factors. Aim Our aim was to review factors associated with workplace PTSD in psychiatric nurses. Method We searched quantitative and qualitative studies from 1980 to 2019 in 23 databases plus abstracts for studies on psychiatric hospital nursing staff, potentially traumatic workplace events, workplace factors and PTSD. Following duplicate abstract (n = 10,064) and full-text (n = 199) screening, data were extracted in duplicate from 19 studies. Using best-fit framework synthesis, we identified workplace violence, pre-trauma and post-trauma risk factors. Results Six variables yielded evidence in at least two empirical studies scoring at least 6/8 on a quality measure, or one such study plus more than one other study ("promising": severe/injurious assault, cumulative exposure, burnout, poor mental health, low compassion satisfaction, neuroticism). Four were supported by at least one better quality study or at least two others ("suggestive": gender, poor training, any physical aggression exposure, compassion fatigue). Discussion Pre-trauma measures, consistent definitions of workplace exposures and thorough reporting of quantitative results are needed to improve research. Implications for Practice Violence prevention and mental health care for exposed nurses appear the most promising targets for PTSD prevention. Therefore, it is particularly important to understand workplace violence and mental health among nurses working in psychiatric hospitals.

There are large socioeconomic inequalities in alcohol-related harm. The alcohol harm paradox (AHP) is the consistent finding that lower socioeconomic groups consume the same or less as higher socioeconomic groups yet experience greater rates of harm. To date, alcohol researchers have predominantly taken an individualised behavioural approach to understand the AHP. This paper calls for a new approach which draws on theories of health inequality, specifically the social determinants of health, fundamental cause theory, political economy of health and eco-social models. These theories consist of several interwoven causal mechanisms, including genetic inheritance, the role of social networks, the unequal availability of wealth and other resources, the psychosocial experience of lower socioeconomic position, and the accumulation of these experiences over time. To date, research exploring the causes of the AHP has often lacked clear theoretical underpinning. Drawing on these theoretical approaches in alcohol research would not only address this gap but would also result in a structured effort to identify the causes of the AHP. Given the present lack of clear evidence in favour of any specific theory, it is difficult to conclude whether one theory should take primacy in future research efforts. However, drawing on any of these theories would shift how we think about the causes of the paradox, from health behaviour in isolation to the wider context of complex interacting mechanisms between individuals and their environment. Meanwhile, computer simulations have the potential to test the competing theoretical perspectives, both in the abstract and empirically via synthesis of the disparate existing evidence base. Overall, making greater use of existing theoretical frameworks in alcohol epidemiology would offer novel insights into the AHP and generate knowledge of how to intervene to mitigate inequalities in alcohol-related harm.

Maladaptive parental attributions for their children's behavior have been linked to poorer parenting skills, heightened child internalizing and externalizing difficulties, and parents' less willingness to engage in treatment. Although most parental attributions research has been focused on White or European-origin parents, attention has recently turned to ethnic and cultural groups that are underrepresented literature. The present scoping review synthesized existing work on parental attributions among ethnocultural minority and immigrant parents in an adopted country and parents residing in their native non-Western country of origin. A systematic search of five databases was conducted for literature published up to and including the last week of December 2020. Title and abstract screening, then full-text screening, identified 18 records for inclusion in the review. Although descriptive, single-culture studies showed that maladaptive parental attributions were associated with poorer parenting and child outcomes across cultures, studies comparing ethnocultural groups demonstrated differences in parental attributions across groups. Despite the rise in and importance of literature on parental attributions, these results point to a limited scope in understanding parental attributions of ethnocultural minority, immigrant, and country of origin parents. Gaps identified in the literature point to promising future research directions, and a call is made for culturally sensitive parental attribution measures.

Mandatory vaccination for COVID-19 has been the object of heated debate in Brazil. This article discusses the legality and constitutionality of such a policy. First, it analyzes the laws, regulations, and Supreme Court decisions that provide for the possibility of mandatory COVID-19 vaccination. Subsequently, it analyzes the constitutionality of a mandatory vaccination policy through the proportionality method to address the conflict between, on one side, the right to individual autonomy, which includes the right to refuse a medical intervention, and, on the other, health policies that interfere with individual autonomy to protect the rights to life and health. The application of this method allows for the identification of key questions that need to be answered to determine the constitutionality of a mandatory vaccination program. These questions cannot be answered 

The emergency department plays a common and critical role in the treatment of postoperative patients. However, many quality improvement databases fail to record these interactions. As such, our understanding of the prevalence and etiology of postoperative emergency department visits in contemporary colorectal surgery is limited. Visits with potentially preventable etiologies represent a significant target for quality improvement, particularly in the current era of rapidly evolving postoperative and ambulatory care patterns. We aimed to characterize postoperative emergency department visits and identify factors associated with these visits for potential intervention. This was a retrospective cohort study. The study was conducted at an academic medical center. Consecutive patients undergoing colectomy or proctectomy within the division of colorectal surgery at an academic medical center between 2014 and 2018 were included. Frequency and indication for emergency department visits, as well as clinical and sociodemographic factors associated with emergency department visits in the postoperative period, were included measures. From the 1763 individual operations, there were 207 emergency department visits from 199 patients (11%) within 30 days of discharge. Two thirds of emergency department visits led to readmission. Median (interquartile range) time to presentation was 8 days (4-16 d). Median time in the emergency department was 7.8 hours (6.0-10.1 h). One third of visits were identified as potentially preventable, most commonly for pain (17%) and stoma complications (excluding dehydration; 13%). A primary language other than English was associated with any postoperative emergency department visit risk ratio of 2.7 (95% CI, 1.3-5.3), as well as a preventable visit risk ratio of 3.6 (95% CI, 1.7-8.0). This was a single-center study and a retrospective review. One third of emergency department visits after colorectal surgery are potentially preventable. Special attention should be directed toward those patients who do not speak English as a primary language. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B648. ANTECEDENTES:Las unidades de emergencia tienen un rol fundamental en el periodo posterior a una cirugía. Sin embargo muchos de los registros en las bases de datos de estas secciones no son de buena calidad. Por esto analizar la prevalencia y etiología de las visitas postoperatorias en cirugía colorectal resulta ser bastante limitada. Para lograr una mejoría en la calidad es fundamental analizar las causas potencialmente evitables, especialmente al considerer la rapida evolucion de los parametros de medición actuales.OBJETIVO:Nuestro objetivo es caracterizar las visitas postoperatorias al servicio de urgencias e identificar los factores asociados potencialmente evitables.DISEÑO:Estudio de cohorte retrospectivo.AJUSTE:Centro médico académico, 2014-2018.PACIENTES:Pacientes consecutivos sometidos a colectomía o proctectomía dentro de la división de cirugía colorrectal en un centro médico académico entre 2014 y 2018.PRINCIPALES MEDIDAS DE RESULTADO:Frecuencia e indicación de las visitas al servicio de urgencias en el period postoperatorio: factores clínicos y sociodemográficos.RESULTADOS:De 1763 operaciones individuales, hubo 207 visitas al departamento de emergencias de 199 pacientes (11%) en los 30 días posteriores al alta. Dos tercios de las visitas al servicio de urgencias dieron lugar a readmisiones. La mediana [rango intercuartílico] de tiempo hasta la presentación fue de 8 [4-16] días. La mediana de tiempo en el servicio de urgencias fue de 7,8 [6-10,1] horas. Un tercio de las visitas se identificaron como potencialmente evitables, más comúnmente dolor (17%) y complicaciones del estoma (excluida la deshidratación) (13%). En los pacientes con poco manejo del inglés se asoció con una mayor frecuencia razón de visitas al departamento de emergencias posoperatorias [IC del 95%] 2,7 [1,3-5,3], así como opetancialmente evitables con un RR de 3,6 [1,7-8,0].LIMITACIONES:Estudio de un solo centro y revisión retrospectiva.CONCLUSIÓN:Al menos un tercio de las visitas al servicio de urgencias después de una cirugía colorrectal son potencialmente evitables. Se debe prestar especial atención a los pacientes que no hablan inglés como idioma materno. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B648.

To review and synthesize the existing evidence on bereavement care, within the United Kingdom (UK), for ethnic minority communities in terms of barriers and facilitators to access; models of care; outcomes from, and satisfaction with, service provision. A systematic review adopting a framework synthesis approach was conducted. An electronic search of the literature was undertaken in MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, Social Work Abstract and CINAHL via EBSCO, Global Health, Cochrane library, the Trip database and ProQuest between 1995 and 2020. Search terms included bereavement care, ethnic minority populations and the UK setting. From 3,185 initial records, following screening for eligibility, and full-text review of 164 articles, seven studies were identified. There was no research literature outlining the role of family, friends and existing networks; and a real absence of evidence about outcomes and levels of satisfaction for those from an ethnic minority background who receive bereavement care. From the limited literature, the overarching theme for barriers to bereavement care was 'unfamiliarity and irregularities'. Four identified subthemes were 'lack of awareness'; 'variability in support'; 'type and format of support'; and 'culturally specific beliefs'. The overarching theme for facilitators for bereavement care was 'accessibility' with the two subthemes being 'readily available information' and 'inclusive approaches'. Three studies reported on examples of different models of care provision. This review reveals a stark lack of evidence about bereavement care for ethnic minority populations. In particular, understanding more about the role of family, friends and existing support systems, alongside outcomes and satisfaction will begin to develop the evidence base underpinning current provision. Direct user-representation through proactive engagement and co-design approaches may begin to determine the most appropriate models and format of bereavement care for ethnic minority communities to inform service design and delivery.

The Internet of Things (IoT) paradigm has been extensively applied to several sectors in the last years, ranging from industry to smart cities. In the health domain, IoT makes possible new scenarios of healthcare delivery as well as collecting and processing health data in real time from sensors in order to make informed decisions. However, this domain is complex and presents several technological challenges. Despite the extensive literature about this topic, the application of IoT in healthcare scarcely covers requirements of this sector. A literature review from January 2010 to February 2021 was performed resulting in 12,108 articles. After filtering by title, abstract, and content, 86 were eligible and examined according to three requirement themes: data lifecycle; trust, security, and privacy; and human-related issues. The analysis of the reviewed literature shows that most approaches consider IoT application in healthcare merely as in any other domain (industry, smart cities…), with no regard of the specific requirements of this domain. Future efforts in this matter should be aligned with the specific requirements and needs of the health domain, so that exploiting the capabilities of the IoT paradigm may represent a meaningful step forward in the application of this technology in healthcare.

Although the representation of women in science has improved, women remain underrepresented in scientific publications. This study compares women and men in scholarly dissemination through the AMIA Annual Symposium. Through a retrospective observational study, we analyzed 2017-2020 AMIA submissions for differences in panels, papers, podium abstracts, posters, workshops, and awards for men compared with women. We assigned a label of woman or man to authors and reviewers using Genderize.io, and then compared submission and acceptance rates, performed regression analyses to evaluate the impact of the assumed gender, and performed sentiment analysis of reviewer comments. Of the 4687 submissions for which Genderize.io could predict man or woman based on first name, 40% were led by women and 60% were led by men. The acceptance rate was smilar. Although submission and acceptance rates for women increased over the 4 years, women-led podium abstracts, panels, and workshops were underrepresented. Men reviewers increased the odds of rejection. Men provided longer reviews and lower reviewer scores, but women provided reviews that had more positive words. Overall, our findings reflect significant gains for women in the 4 years of conference data analyzed. However, there remain opportunities to improve representation of women in workshop submissions, panel and podium abstract speakers, and balanced peer reviews. Future analyses could be strengthened by collecting gender directly from authors, including diverse genders such as non-binary. We found little evidence of major bias against women in submission, acceptance, and awards associated with the AMIA Annual Symposium from 2017 to 2020. Our study is unique because of the analysis of both authors and reviewers. The encouraging findings raise awareness of progress and remaining opportunities in biomedical informatics scientific dissemination.

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on mental health have been understudied among vulnerable populations, particularly in fragile and conflict-affected settings. We aimed to analyse how the pandemic is related to early changes in mental health and parenting stress among caregivers, many of whom are internally displaced persons (IDP), in a conflict-affected setting in Colombia. For this cohort study, we used longitudinal data from a psychosocial support programme in which 1376 caregivers were randomly assigned across four sequential cohorts. Recruitment of participants took place in March, 2018, for cohort 1; July, 2018, for cohort 2; March, 2019, for cohort 3; and July, 2019, for cohort 4. Participants completed assessments at baseline, 1-month, and 8-month follow-ups. The 8-month assessment occurred before the COVID-19 pandemic for participants in cohorts 1 and 2 (n=573), whereas those in cohorts 3 and 4 (n=803) were assessed during the early stages of the pandemic, 2-5 weeks after the national lockdown began on March 25, 2020. Primary caregiver anxiety and depression were measured with a scale adapted from the Symptoms Checklist-90-Revised and parenting stress was measured with the short form of the Parenting Stress Index. We estimated how mental health changed by comparing prepandemic and postpandemic 8-month outcomes using lagged-dependent variable models. Results showed that the likelihood of reporting symptoms above the risk threshold increased by 14 percentage points for anxiety (95% CI 10-17), 5 percentage points for depression (0·5-9), and 10 percentage points for parental stress (5-15). The deterioration in mental health was stronger for IDP, participants with lower education or pre-existing mental health conditions, and for those reporting a higher number of stressors, including food insecurity and job loss. Maternal mental health significantly worsened during the early stages of the pandemic. Considering the vulnerability and pre-existing mental health conditions of this population, the estimated effects are substantial. Policies in fragile and conflict-affected settings targeting IDP and other vulnerable people will be important to mitigate further mental health and socioeconomic problems. Saving Brains-Grand Challenges Canada, Fundación Éxito, Fundación FEMSA, United Way Colombia, Universidad de los Andes. For the Spanish translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Visual information is of pivotal ecological importance to monkeys, apes, and humans, whereas its role in nocturnal primate ecology is less well understood. We explored how purely visual information modulates the behavior of a nocturnal primate. Abstract (shape), photographic (shape + detail), or video (shape + detail + motion) representations of arthropod prey (Zophobas morio; food context) or a male conspecific (social context) were systematically presented to 22 individuals of the gray mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus) using a touchscreen. We assessed stimulus-directed touch interactions, durations of focused visual attention towards the different stimuli, and durations spent in the half of the setup-chamber more distant to the touchscreen (as quantification of approach/avoidance). Focused attention towards the stimulus generally increased from abstract and photographic to videographic stimuli. For the food context, indications for a parallel increase in stimulus-directed touch interactions from abstract stimulus to video were found. Approach/avoidance was independent of the stimulus type within both contexts. A comparison between the contexts under the video condition revealed higher durations of visual attention and lower stimulus avoidance in the food context compared to the social context. The number of touch interactions with the video stimulus was not generally context-dependent, but context-dependency related to sex: In the food context, animals with high and low numbers of touch interactions were equally distributed across sexes. In the social context, females showed the highest numbers of touch interactions. Numbers in males declined compared to the food context. Our results demonstrate for the first time that purely visual information modulates mouse lemur behavior and focused attention in a content- and context-specific manner, suggesting that vision is of high importance for the ecology of these nocturnal primates. The findings emphasize the need for further vision-based experiments to gain deeper insight into the evolution of visual information processing and cognition in nocturnal primates.

The inclusion of an index, which can be the representative of environmental quality from different aspects, seems to be of paramount significance. This issue is a major challenging one in the economic-environmental literature. This study investigates the role of financial development in economic growth effect on the composite environmental quality index (CEQI) in two groups of selected Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. In this regard, System Generalized Method of Moment (SYS-GMM) is applied to fit the research models. According to the findings, in the selected OPEC countries, financial development reinforces negative impacts of economic growth on environmental quality. In the selected OECD countries, economic growth has negative effect on the environmental quality and financial development weakens this effect. The effect of financial development on the CEQI is respectively negative and positive in OPEC and OECD countries. Moreover, in both groups of selected countries, energy consumption and economic growth have a negative impact on the CEQI; nonetheless, trade openness has a positive effect. Accordingly, some policy suggestions and new recommendations are presented for future studies, which would contribute to the better implementation of economic-environmental policies. Graphical abstract.

Although surgical therapy continues to be the gold standard for the treatment of basal cell carcinoma given high cure rates and the ability to histologically confirm tumor clearance, there are a number of nonsurgical treatment options that may be considered based on individual tumor characteristics, functional and cosmetic considerations, patient comorbidities and patient preference. Topical 5-fluorouracil 5% cream and imiquimod 5% cream have been US FDA-approved for the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinoma. Additionally, a number of new and emerging topical agents and techniques have been described for the treatment of basal cell carcinoma and will be reviewed herein.

Autistic people and those with high autistic traits are at high risk of experiencing suicidality. Yet, there are no suicidality assessment tools developed or validated for these groups. A widely used and validated suicidality assessment tool developed for the general population (SBQ-R), was adapted using feedback from autistic adults, to create the Suicidal Behaviours Questionnaire-Autism Spectrum Conditions (SBQ-ASC). The adapted tool was refined through nine interviews, and an online survey with 251 autistic adults, to establish clarity and relevance of the items. Subsequently, 308 autistic, 113 possibly autistic, and 268 non-autistic adults completed the adapted tool online, alongside self-report measures of autistic traits (AQ), camouflaging autistic traits (CAT-Q), depression (PHQ-9), anxiety (ASA-A), thwarted belongingness and perceived burdensomeness (INQ-15), lifetime non-suicidal self-injury, and the original version of the suicidality assessment tool (SBQ-R). Analyses explored the appropriateness and measurement properties of the adapted tool between the groups. There was evidence in support of content validity, structural validity, internal consistency, convergent and divergent validity, test-retest validity, sensitivity and specificity (for distinguishing those with or without lifetime experience of suicide attempt), and hypothesis testing of the adapted tool (SBQ-ASC) in each group. The structure of the SBQ-ASC was equivalent between autistic and possibly autistic adults, regardless of gender, or use of visual aids to help quantify abstract rating scales. The samples involved in the development and validation of the adapted tool were largely female, and largely diagnosed as autistic in adulthood, which limits the generalisability of results to the wider autistic population. The SBQ-ASC has been developed for use in research and is not recommended to assess risk of future suicide attempts and/or self-harm. The SBQ-ASC has been designed with and for autistic and possibly autistic adults, and is not appropriate to compare to non-autistic adults given measurement differences between these groups. The SBQ-ASC is a brief self-report suicidality assessment tool, developed and validated with and for autistic adults, without co-occurring intellectual disability. The SBQ-ASC is appropriate for use in research to identify suicidal thoughts and behaviours in autistic and possibly autistic people, and model associations with risk and protective factors.

Q-methodology is an approach to studying complex issues of human 'subjectivity'. Although this approach was developed in the early twentieth century, the value of Q-methodology in healthcare was not recognised until relatively recently. The aim of this review was to scope the empirical healthcare literature to examine the extent to which Q-methodology has been utilised in healthcare over time, including how it has been used and for what purposes. A search of three electronic databases (Scopus, EBSCO-CINAHL Complete, Medline) was conducted. No date restriction was applied. A title and abstract review, followed by a full-text review, was conducted by a team of five reviewers. Included articles were English-language, peer-reviewed journal articles that used Q-methodology (both Q-sorting and inverted factor analysis) in healthcare settings. The following data items were extracted into a purpose-designed Excel spreadsheet: study details (e.g., setting, country, year), reasons for using Q-methodology, healthcare topic area, participants (type and number), materials (e.g., ranking anchors and Q-set), methods (e.g., development of the Q-set, analysis), study results, and study implications. Data synthesis was descriptive in nature and involved frequency counting, open coding and the organisation by data items. Of the 2,302 articles identified by the search, 289 studies were included in this review. We found evidence of increased use of Q-methodology in healthcare, particularly over the last 5 years. However, this research remains diffuse, spread across a large number of journals and topic areas. In a number of studies, we identified limitations in the reporting of methods, such as insufficient information on how authors derived their Q-set, what types of analyses they performed, and the amount of variance explained. Although Q-methodology is increasingly being adopted in healthcare research, it still appears to be relatively novel. This review highlight commonalities in how the method has been used, areas of application, and the potential value of the approach. To facilitate reporting of Q-methodological studies, we present a checklist of details that should be included for publication.

The Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP) 2017 Update and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Baselines report classified 71% of the global population as having access to 'safely managed' drinking water. Current global monitoring efforts to track access to safely managed drinking water rely on collecting information on the 'primary' source of drinking water. However, there is evidence that households often rely on multiple sources to meet their water needs in many low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This systematic review was designed to compile the literature related to the practice of multiple water source use (MWSU) for drinking water in LMICs. A total of 5,318 studies were collected, and after abstract and full-text review, 74 articles were identified for inclusion. Studies reviewed reported from 4 to 100% of the study populations practicing MWSU. Additionally, the practice of supplemental unimproved source use was reported globally, representing households with improved primary source water also accessing unimproved water sources throughout the year. These findings expose gaps in current global water monitoring efforts, revealing potential inflation of reports of 'safe drinking water access' and unaccounted exposure to drinking water from unimproved sources.

The understanding at the beginning of the last century that colorectal cancer began as a localized disease that progressed and became systemic, and that most colorectal cancer arose from adenomatous polyps gave rise to aggressive attempts at curative treatment and eventually attempts to detect advanced lesions before they progressed to invasive disease. In the last four decades, steadily greater uptake of screening has led to reductions in colorectal cancer incidence and mortality. However, the fullest potential of screening is not being met due to the lack of organized screening, where a systems approach could lead to higher rates of screening of average and high risk groups, higher quality screening, and prompt followup of adults with positive screening tests. ABSTRACT: Since the beginning of the 20th century, there has been a general understanding that colorectal cancer is a clonal disease that progresses from a localized stage with a favorable prognosis through progressively more advanced stages which have progressively worse prognosis. That understanding led first to determined efforts to detect and treat early stage symptomatic disease, and then to detect pre-symptomatic colorectal cancer and precursor lesions, where there was hope that the natural history of the disease could be arrested and the incidence and premature mortality of colorectal cancer averted. Toward the end of the last century, guidelines for colorectal cancer screening, growth in the number of technical options for screening, and a steady increase in the proportion of the adult population who attended screening contributed to the beginning of a significant decline in colorectal cancer incidence and mortality. Despite this progress, colorectal cancer remains the third leading cause of death among men and women in the United States. Screening for early detection of precursor lesions and localized cancer offers the single most productive opportunity to further reduce the burden of disease, and yet nearly four in five deaths from colorectal cancer are associated with having never been screened, not recently screened, or not followed up for an abnormal screening test. This simple observation is a call to action in all communities to apply existing knowledge to fulfill the potential to prevent avertable incidence and mortality.

Killed whole-cell oral cholera vaccines (OCVs) are widely used for prevention of cholera in developing countries. However, few studies have evaluated the protection conferred by internationally recommended OCVs for durations beyond 2 years of follow-up. In this study, we followed up the participants of a cluster-randomised controlled trial for 2 years after the end of the original trial. Originally, we had randomised 90 geographical clusters in Dhaka slums in Bangladesh in equal numbers (1:1:1) to a two-dose regimen of OCV alone (targeted to people aged 1 year or older), a two-dose regimen of OCV plus a water-sanitation-hygiene (WASH) intervention, or no intervention. There was no masking of group assignment. The WASH intervention conferred little additional protection to OCV and was discontinued at 2 years of follow-up. Surveillance for severe cholera was continued for 4 years. Because of the short duration and effect of the WASH intervention, we combined the two OCV intervention groups. The primary outcomes were OCV overall protection (protection of all members of the intervention clusters) and total protection (protection of individuals who got vaccinated in the intervention clusters) against severe cholera, which we assessed by multivariable survival models appropriate for cluster-randomised trials. This trial is registered on ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01339845. The study was done between April 17, 2011, and Nov 1, 2015. 268 896 participants were present at the time of the first dose, with 188 206 in the intervention group and 80 690 in the control group. OCV coverage of the two groups receiving OCV was 66% (123 659 of 187 214 participants). During 4 years of follow-up, 441 first episodes of severe cholera were detected (243 episodes in the vaccinated groups and as 198 episodes in the unvaccinated group). Overall OCV protection was 36% (95% CI 19 to 49%) and total OCV protection was 46% (95% CI 32 to 58). Cumulative total vaccine protection was notably lower for people vaccinated before the age of 5 years (24%; -30 to 56) than for people vaccinated at age 5 years or older (49%; 35 to 60), although the differences in protection for the two age groups were not significant (p=0·3308). Total vaccine protection dropped notably (p=0·0115) after 3 years in children vaccinated at 1-4 years of age. These findings provide further evidence of long-term effectiveness of killed whole-cell OCV, and therefore further support for the use of killed whole-cell OCVs to control endemic cholera, but indicate that protection is shorter-lived in children vaccinated before the age of 5 years than in people vaccinated at the age of 5 years or older. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. For the Bengali translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Smoking is more common among people with serious mental illness, and it contributes to a reduced life expectancy. Several Western countries have successfully introduced smoke-free policies in inpatient mental health units. There is virtually no information about attitudes to smoking bans in mental health units from countries in the Middle East and North Africa region. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We surveyed mental health professionals working in Qatar's main mental health service to determine support for and attitudes towards a proposed total smoking ban in psychiatric wards. Most staff who completed the survey supported an inpatient smoking ban. However, further analysis, both quantitative and qualitative, showed markedly ambivalent attitudes, that is staff simultaneously held attitudes that supported and opposed a smoking ban. Professionals who did not support a ban were more likely to have not received smoking cessation training in the last 5 years, to be a psychiatrist rather than a nurse or allied mental health professional, to be current smokers and to be a Middle Eastern and North African national. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Further staff training is necessary to achieve more consistent attitudes that support a total smoking ban and increase the likelihood of successful implementation. The attitudes in this study showed similarities and differences to those reported for mental health professionals in Western countries. This highlights that local research is necessary to help shape training and successfully implement smoke-free policies. ABSTRACT: Introduction Despite the fact that patients with serious mental illness (SMI) have high rates of smoking and an increased standardized mortality, there is virtually no information about attitudes to smoking bans in mental health units from countries in the Middle East and North Africa region. Aim To assess support for, and attitudes towards, a proposed total smoking ban in psychiatric wards among mental health clinicians in Qatar. Method Cross-sectional survey of mental health professionals working in Qatar's primary mental health service. Results The response rate was 68% (353/520). Support for a ban was assessed with a single-item question; 73% of respondents supported a ban with opposition significantly (p < .05) associated with being a current smoker, a Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) national, a psychiatrist versus a mental health nurse or allied health professional and not receiving smoking cessation training in the last 5 years. A 21-item questionnaire assessed attitudes to a total smoking ban. It showed marked ambivalence with multiple linear regression identifying MENA nationality, male gender and current smoking status as independent variables influencing attitudes. The most strongly held attitude supporting a ban was concern about passive smoking and against a ban was concern it may increase patient agitation. Qualitative data confirmed ambivalent views. Discussion The results show similarities and differences to research from other countries suggesting that cultural factors influence some attitudes to smoke-free policies. Implications for Practice Staff support and smoking cessation education are necessary to achieve more consistent staff attitudes to support smoke-free policies.

This is a literature review on the history of venous trauma since the 1800s, especially that to the common femoral, femoral and popliteal veins, with focus on the early 1900s, World War I, World War II, Korean War, Vietnam War, and then civilian and military reviews (1960-2020). In the latter two groups, tables were used to summarize the following: incidence of venous repair versus ligation, management of popliteal venous injuries, patency of venous repairs when assessed <30 days from operation, patency of venous repairs when assessed >30 days from operation, clinical assessment (edema or not) after ligation versus repair, incidence of deep venous thrombosis after ligation versus repair, and incidence of pulmonary embolism after ligation versus repair.There is a lack of the following in the literature on the management of venous injuries over the past 80 years: standard definition of magnitude of venous injury in operative reports, accepted indications for venous repair, standard postoperative management, and timing and mode of early and later postoperative assessment.Multiple factors have entered into the decision on venous ligation versus repair after trauma for the past 60 years, but a surgeon's training and local management protocols have the most influence in both civilian and military centers. Ligation of venous injuries, particularly those in the lower extremities, is well tolerated in civilian trauma, although there is the usual lack of short- and long-term follow-up as noted in many of the articles reviewed. Review article, levels IV and V.

The purpose was to assess prevalence of suicidality, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and anxiety among female sex workers (FSW). A systematic review and meta-analysis was performed. Search strategy was performed in MEDLINE, Scopus, Web of Science, EMBASE, Ovid and Cochrane Central Database from inception until March 2020. Considered for inclusion were cross-sectional studies performed on FSW that assessed prevalence of any of the following: suicide attempt or suicidal ideation, depression, PTSD, or anxiety. Five reviewers, independently and in duplicate, selected all eligible articles in an abstract and full-text screening phase and, moreover, extracted information from each study. A binomial-normal generalized linear mixed model was employed to estimate prevalence of the conditions. From 8035 studies yielded in the search strategy, 55 were included for analysis. The overall prevalence of suicidal ideation and attempt was 27% (95% C.I. 18-39%) and 20% (95% C.I. 13-28%), respectively. Furthermore, overall prevalence of depression and PTSD was 44% (95% C.I. 35-54%) and 29% (95% C.I. 18-44%), respectively. Eleven studies were classified as high quality. Findings indicate that there is an overall high prevalence of suicidality, depression, and PTSD among FSW. Development of accessible large-scale interventions that assess mental health among this population remains critical.

This article engages with the legal regulation of end-of-existence decisionmaking for novel beings, specifically assisted nonexistence for such entities. The author explains the concept of a legal model for assisted death by reference to the substantive features of legal regimes in three jurisdictions in which assisted suicide or euthanasia is lawful. He considers how these models might fit novel beings who may require or prefer assistance to end their own existence by reference to the constituent features-abstract legal ingredients-that models for assisted death share. The author argues that extant models may block some novel beings' access to end-of-existence assistance or fail to track what matters to them. He then examines the merits of adopting a universal model for assisted nonexistence, that is, a legal framework whose substantive features capture the end-of-existence concerns of both human and novel beings. Consideration of a unified legal framework may illuminate the discussion of assisted nonexistence for humans and novel beings. However, the paper proposes that whereas novel beings may have similar interests to humans, they may be relevantly different also. The prima facie case for adopting a one regime to rule us all approach to assisted nonexistence may be defeated by reasons for divergent regulation.

Introduction: identifying maternal attitudes and behaviors related to child feeding could be difficult since the underlying constructs are abstract and complex. Different questionnaires have been used to identify these constructs: one of the most widely used is the Comprehensive Feeding Practices Questionnaire (CFPQ), which had been validated in different populations. However, no previous study ever validated the CFPQ in Mexican mothers. Material and methods: a process of cultural adaptation was done to adapt the CFPQ to Mexican mothers, and subsequently a confirmatory factor analysis was done. A total of 300 mother-preschooler pairs participated. Weight and height were measured and the nutritional status was obtained. Results: the CFPQ is a useful questionnaire to identify child feeding practices, since the model's goodness of fit indices were acceptable (CFI = 0.943, TLI = 0.937, NFI = 0.874 and RMSEA = 0.042), as was the internal consistency of the CFPQ. Conclusion: the CFPQ version that was translated into Spanish and adapted to Mexican mothers demonstrated significant internal reliability, and therefore is useful to identify and describe maternal child-feeding practices.

Prolonged or complicated grief disorder occurs in 9.8% of bereaved adults and can progress into adverse health effects if left unresolved. Evidence on the appropriate and specific diagnostic instrument for the assessment of prolonged or complicated grief disorders is lacking. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the performance of the most widely used instruments to diagnose grief disorders, including The Inventory of Complicated Grief, The Inventory of Complicated Grief - Revised, and the Prolonged Grief Disorder-13. Diagnostic meta-analysis. PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, Medline, Scopus, Web of Science, and Cochrane were searched up to July 1, 2020. We included studies evaluating the sensitivity and specificity of grief disorders diagnostic tools against the comparator tests in individuals who experienced the loss of a family member. A diagnostic meta-analysis of pooled sensitivity and specificity, likelihood ratios, and area under curve were performed with a random-effect and hierarchical model. In the current study, 3540 participants were involved. The six studies of the Inventory of Complicated Grief had pooled sensitivity of 0.93 (95% confidence interval: 0.87 to 0.97) and specificity of 0.96 (95% confidence interval: 0.92 to 0.98). The positive likelihood ratio was 23.4 (95% confidence interval: 11.2 to 49.0) and the negative likelihood ratio was 0.07 (95% confidence interval: 0.04 to 0.14) with area under curve value at 0.96 (95% confidence interval: 0.97 to 0.99). For Prolonged Grief Disorder-13, the three included studies' pooled sensitivity was 0.51 (95% confidence interval: 0.42 to 0.60), and the pooled specificity was 0.96 (95% confidence interval: 0.93 to 0.98). The Inventory of Complicated Grief-Revised evaluation could not be performed as only two articles from the same study were identified in this meta-analysis. The Inventory of Complicated Grief is a highly recommend instrument to differentiate the case of grief disorders. Nurses and health care professionals can use the Inventory of Complicated Grief in the diagnosis of prolonged or complicated grief disorders due to its high sensitivity and specificity values. Further evaluations are needed for the use of Prolonged Grief Disorder-13 and Inventory of Complicated Grief-Revised. The study is registered with the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/bs8n6/?view_only=109e76e59efb4d7699153f62564f57ed). Tweetable abstract: Inventory of Complicated Grief is a highly recommend instrument with high sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing grief disorders.

Debate around a common definition of global health has seen extensive scholarly interest within the last two decades; however, consensus around a precise definition remains elusive. The objective of this study was to systematically review definitions of global health in the literature and offer grounded theoretical insights into what might be seen as relevant for establishing a common definition of global health. A systematic review was conducted with qualitative synthesis of findings using peer-reviewed literature from key databases. Publications were identified by the keywords of 'global health' and 'define' or 'definition' or 'defining'. Coding methods were used for qualitative analysis to identify recurring themes in definitions of global health published between 2009 and 2019. The search resulted in 1363 publications, of which 78 were included. Qualitative analysis of the data generated four theoretical categories and associated subthemes delineating key aspects of global health. These included: (1) global health is a multiplex approach to worldwide health improvement taught and pursued at research institutions; (2) global health is an ethically oriented initiative that is guided by justice principles; (3) global health is a mode of governance that yields influence through problem identification, political decision-making, as well as the allocation and exchange of resources across borders and (4) global health is a vague yet versatile concept with multiple meanings, historical antecedents and an emergent future. Extant definitions of global health can be categorised thematically to designate areas of importance for stakeholders and to organise future debates on its definition. Future contributions to this debate may consider shifting from questioning the abstract 'what' of global health towards more pragmatic and reflexive questions about 'who' defines global health and towards what ends.

No abstract available.

Conferences provide an opportunity to present findings to an audience of experts in the field and get feedback for putting the research in context. Since conference proceedings provide limited space for presenting the findings, research publications are able to provide a better platform for the wider reach, scrupulous peer evaluation, and temporal consolidation of the medical scientific material. This review attempts to collate the studies which have evaluated the abstract publication ratio of the conference presentations. The systematic review and meta-analysis included peer reviewed publications which quantitatively reported the publication rate of conference presentations. A total of 28 studies were included, with sample sizes ranging from 82 to 1897 abstracts (total 17,172 abstracts). The publication rate ranged from 3.8% to 78.0%, with weighted mean publication rate of 41.8% (95% confidence interval of 34.1% to 49.5%). Oral presentations had a greater chance of being published as compared to poster presentations (odds ratio of 2.693, 95% confidence intervals of 1.285 to 5.646). There was high degree of heterogeneity in the findings. A small proportion of the conference presentations ispublished. Efforts should be made to improve the abstract publication ratio to improve the wider dissemination of the available research.

Health systems are often fragmented in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). This can increase inefficiencies and restrict progress towards universal health coverage. The objective of the systematic review described in this protocol will be to evaluate and synthesize the evidence concerning the impacts of health systems financing fragmentation in LMICs. Literature searches will be conducted in multiple electronic databases, from their inception onwards, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, CINAHL, Scopus, ScienceDirect, Scielo, Cochrane Library, EconLit, and JSTOR. Gray literature will be also targeted through searching OpenSIGLE, Google Scholar, and institutional websites (e.g., HMIC, The World Bank, WHO, PAHO, OECD). The search strings will include keywords related to LMICs, health system financing fragmentation, and health system goals. Experimental, quasi-experimental, and observational studies conducted in LMICs and examining health financing fragmentation across any relevant metric (e.g., the presence of different health funders/insurers, risk pooling mechanisms, eligibility categories, benefits packages, premiums) will be included. Studies will be eligible if they compare financing fragmentation in alternative settings or at least two-time points. The primary outcomes will be health system-related goals such as health outcomes (e.g., mortality, morbidity, patient-reported outcome measures) and indicators of access, services utilization, equity, and financial risk protection. Additional outcomes will include intermediate health system objectives (e.g., indicators of efficiency and quality). Two reviewers will independently screen all citations, abstract data, and full-text articles. Potential conflicts will be resolved through discussion and, when necessary, resolved by a third reviewer. The methodological quality (or risk of bias) of selected studies will be appraised using established checklists. Data extraction categories will include the studies' objective and design, the fragmentation measurement and domains, and health outcomes linked to the fragmentation. A narrative synthesis will be used to describe the results and characteristics of all included studies and to explore relationships and findings both within and between the studies. Evidence on the impacts of health system fragmentation in LMICs is key for identifying evidence gaps and priority areas for intervention. This knowledge will be valuable to health system policymakers aiming to strengthen health systems in LMICs. PROSPERO CRD42020201467.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Restraint has negative psychological, physical and relational consequences for mental health patients and care providers. Several countries have implemented seclusion and restraint (S/R) reduction programmes in which post-incident reviews (PIRs) including patients and care providers are one of several strategies. Existing knowledge indicates that PIRs have the potential to contribute to S/R prevention, but knowledge of the patients' perspectives on PIRs is scarce. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The paper provides in-depth knowledge about patients' experiences of being participants in PIRs after restraint events. Patients experience PIRs to result in being strengthened and developing new coping strategies. The paper reveals pitfalls when planning and conducting PIRs that make patients experience PIRs as meaningless, feel objectified or long for living communication and closeness. The patients' mental state, the quality of the relationships and the services' care philosophies, influence patients' experiences of PIRs as supporting their personal recovery processes or as continuation of coercive contexts. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Patients' vulnerability during the PIRs must be acknowledged. Trusted persons or advocacy must support the patient in the PIR and thus reduce the power-dependence imbalance. The PIR must be conducted in a supportive, non-punishing atmosphere. Patients must influence planning for the PIR concerning time point and participants and themes to be discussed. The PIR forms should be extended to support the patients' empowerment and well-being. ABSTRACT: Introduction Post-incident reviews (PIRs), including patients, nurses and other care providers, following incidents of restraints are recommended in mental health services. Few studies have examined patients' experiences and considerations concerning PIRs. Aim The study aims to explore patients' perspectives on PIRs in relation to how they experience participation in PIRs and further view PIRs' potential for care improvement and restraint prevention. Method We conducted a qualitative study based on individual interviews. Eight current and previous inpatients from two Norwegian mental health services were interviewed. Results The patients experienced PIRs as variations on a continuum from being strengthened, developing new coping strategies and processing the restraint event to at the other end of the continuum; PIRs as meaningless, feeling objectified and longing for living communication and closeness. Discussion PIRs' beneficial potential is extended in the study. The findings highlight however that personal and institutional conditions influence whether patients experience PIRs as an arena for recovery promotion or PIRs as continuation of coercive contexts. Implications for practice We recommend patients' active participation in planning the PIR. PIRs should be conducted in a supportive atmosphere, including trusted persons, emphasizing and acknowledging a dialogical approach.

Premature infants and their parents experience significant stress related to separation and lifesaving procedures. While evidence suggests that skin-to-skin contact (SSC) is a stress-reducing intervention for both neonates and parents, the mechanisms that underlie its efficacy are not well understood. Purpose of this systematic review is to summarize the current state of knowledge on changes in biomarkers (ie, oxytocin [OT], cortisol, hypoxanthine, xanthine, uric acid, and allantoin), associated with SSC in premature infants and parents, that may reflect physiologic responses to stress. A comprehensive literature search was conducted from 1990 to 2020. Studies were selected using prespecified inclusion and exclusion criteria. Of the 175 studies identified, only 19 are included in this review. Ten studies evaluated only infants, 2 evaluated only parents, and 7 evaluated for changes in biomarkers in both infants and parents. Cortisol was the most common biomarker evaluated. While changes in infants' cortisol levels were highly variable, in 55% of the parent studies, parent cortisol levels decreased following SSC. In both parents and infants, OT levels decreased following SSC. Only 1 study found that allantoin levels were significantly lower in infants who received SSC. While evidence suggests the numerous benefits of SSC, additional research is needed to identify the optimal biomarker to determine the mechanisms that underlie these effects. The use of novel biomarkers (eg, gene expression changes microbiome) may provide new insights into the mechanisms that underlie the efficacy of SSC.Video Abstract available at:https://journals.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/Pages/videogallery.aspx?autoPlay=false&videoId=48.

Global reports have described inequalities in coverage of reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health (RMNCH) interventions, but little is known about how socioeconomic inequality in intervention coverage varies across multiple low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). We aimed to assess the association between wealth-related inequalities in coverage of RMNCH interventions. In this cross-sectional study, we identified publicly available Demographic Health Surveys and Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys from LMICs containing information on household characteristics, reproductive health, women's and children's health, nutrition, and mortality. We identified the most recent survey from the period 2010-19 for 36 countries that contained data for our preselected set of 18 RMNCH interventions. 21 countries also had information on two common malaria interventions. We classified interventions into four groups according to their predominant delivery channels: health facility based, community based, environmental, and culturally driven (including breastfeeding practices). Within each country, we derived wealth quintiles from information on household asset indices. We studied two summary measures of within-country wealth-related inequality: absolute inequalities (akin to coverage differences among children from wealthy and poor households) using the slope index of inequality (SII), and relative inequalities (akin to the ratio of coverage levels for wealthy and poor children) using the concentration index (CIX). Pro-poor inequalities are present when intervention coverage decreased with increasing household wealth, and pro-rich inequalities are present when intervention coverage increased as household wealth increased. Across the 36 LMICs included in our analyses, coverage of most interventions had pro-rich patterns in most countries, except for two breastfeeding indicators that mostly had higher coverage among poor women, children and households than wealthy women, children, and households. Environmental interventions were the most unequal, particularly use of clean fuels, which had median levels of SII of 48·8 (8·6-85·7) and CIX of 67·0 (45·0-85·8). Interventions primarily delivered in health facilities-namely institutional childbirth (median SII 46·7 [23·1-63·3] and CIX 11·4 [4·5-23·4]) and antenatal care (median SII 26·7 [17·0-47·2] and CIX 10·0 [4·2-17·1])-also usually had pro-rich patterns. By comparison, primarily community-based interventions, including those against malaria, were more equitably distributed-eg, oral rehydration therapy (median SII 9·4 [2·9-19·0] and CIX 3·4 [1·3-25·0]) and polio immunisation (SII 12·1 [2·3-25·0] and CIX 3·1 [0·5-7·1]). Differences across the four types of delivery channels in terms of both inequality indices were significant (SII p=0·0052; CIX p=0·0048). Interventions that are often delivered at community level are usually more equitably distributed than those primarily delivered in fixed facilities or those that require changes in the home environment. Policy makers need to learn from community delivery channels to promote more equitable access to all RMNCH interventions. Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Wellcome Trust. For the French, Portuguese and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Social determinants of health (SDoH) include the socioeconomic, demographic, and social conditions that influence differences in health status among individuals and groups. The impact of these conditions on olfactory function remains poorly understood. In this scoping review, we systematically review the available literature to synthesize the association between SDoH and olfactory function. In accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Review (PRISMA-ScR) guidelines, we performed systematic search queries in PubMed, Embase, and Ovid databases and categorized articles according to themes that emerged regarding SDoH. The primary outcomes included self-reported and objective measurements of smell. We identified 722 unique references that underwent title and abstract review by two independent reviewers, with 70 articles undergoing full-text review and 57 relevant for data extraction. Six themes emerged in our review, under which we categorized the studies and synthesized respective associations with olfactory function. These include studies exploring socioeconomic status (n = 19, 33%), education status (n = 27, 47%), occupational exposures (n = 26, 46%), racial/ethnic disparities (n = 12, 21%), and lifestyle/behavioral factors (n = 33, 58%). Within the context of this scoping review, olfactory dysfunction is significantly more prevalent in patients with lower socioeconomic status, exposure to environmental and occupational toxins, and of minority race/ethnicity, whereas the associations between olfactory dysfunction and education level and lifestyle factors such as smoking and drinking seem to be much more elusive. This review highlights the importance of accounting for SDoH in observational studies examining olfactory outcomes. Given the increased awareness of olfactory loss, special consideration should be given to understanding olfactory dysfunction in the context of these factors.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in civilian trauma and battlefield settings. It has been classified across a continuum of dysfunctions, with as much as 80% to 90% of cases diagnosed as mild to moderate in combat casualties. In this report, a framework is presented that focuses on the potential benefits for acute noninvasive treatment of reduced cerebral perfusion associated with mild TBI by harnessing the natural transfer of negative intrathoracic pressure during inspiration. This process is known as intrathoracic pressure regulation (IPR) therapy, which can be applied by having a patient breath against a small inspiratory resistance created by an impedance threshold device. Intrathoracic pressure regulation therapy leverages two fundamental principles for improving blood flow to the brain: (1) greater negative intrathoracic pressure enhances venous return, cardiac output, and arterial blood pressure; and (2) lowering of intracranial pressure provides less resistance to cerebral blood flow. These two effects work together to produce a greater pressure gradient that results in an improvement in cerebral perfusion pressure. In this way, IPR therapy has the potential to counter hypotension and hypoxia, potentially significant contributing factors to secondary brain injury, particularly in conditions of multiple injuries that include severe hemorrhage. By implementing IPR therapy in patients with mild-to-moderate TBI, a potential exists to provide early neuroprotection at the point of injury and a bridge to more definitive care, particularly in settings of prolonged delays in evacuation such as those anticipated in future multidomain operations. Report.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess characteristics of forensic assertive community treatment programs. Forensic assertive community treatment (FACT) has emerged internationally as an intervention strategy for people with serious mental disorders who are involved with the criminal justice system. Studies to date have shown marked variability, however, in FACT program design and operation. Based upon a literature review and relevant experience, the authors present their perspective on the essential elements of FACT. Given that FACT is an adaptation of the evidence-based assertive community treatment (ACT) model, it is recommended that FACT programs maintain a high-fidelity ACT component. FACT programs should also have both mental health and criminal justice admission criteria because service recipients are involved in both service systems. For optimal effectiveness, FACT team clinicians must partner with criminal justice agencies that provide community-based supervision to their patients. Prospective FACT enrollees should receive a clear explanation of the program, including how their respective mental health and criminal justice service providers will work collaboratively with them to prevent incarceration. FACT programs should also use risk/need assessment to inform treatment planning, evidence-based mental health and community correctional practices to promote both wellness and public safety, and shared training to promote effective collaboration. Additional elements to consider include housing, medical care, and transitional services. These elements are presented and discussed, including a rationale and evidence to support each component. The article concludes with introduction of a FACT fidelity scale, the Rochester Forensic Assertive Community Treatment Scale (R-FACTS). By operationalizing essential FACT elements, the R-FACTS is designed to support FACT program development, implementation, and dissemination in a more consistent and measurable manner.

Social isolation and loneliness are interrelated but independent constructs that threaten healthy aging and well-being and are thought to be associated with hearing loss. Our aim was to review the empirical studies that have examined the association between hearing loss and social isolation and/or loneliness to highlight future research needs. Scoping review. Three electronic databases were searched combining key terms of "hearing loss", "hearing impairment" and "deaf*" with "social isolation" or "loneliness", yielding an initial result of 939 articles. After removing duplicate articles, abstract screening and full-text review, 57 original articles met our inclusion criteria. Studies were diverse in terms of methodology with the most common type of study being studies that have explored the relationship between hearing loss and social isolation/loneliness from large population-based datasets. Only eight studies were intervention studies and of these, only one specifically explored the outcomes of hearing aids (HAs) on social isolation/loneliness. Further research is warranted to examine the influence that hearing interventions, in particular HAs, have on social isolation and/or loneliness, with a specific need to include people who identify as being socially isolated and/or lonely at baseline.

To quantify familial risk of endometriosis among full siblings and examine interactions between family history and smoking, age at menarche or body mass index (BMI). Population-based nationwide cohort study. Using data from the Korean National Health Insurance and Screening Programme databases on kinship, healthcare utilisation, lifestyle and anthropometrics, we identified 2 109 288 women with full siblings and their environmental risk factors from 2002 to 2018. Familial risks were estimated using Cox proportional-hazards models, represented as incidence risk ratios (IRR) with 95% CI. Interaction between family history and smoking, age at menarche or BMI were assessed on an additive scale. IRR of endometriosis among women with and without affected siblings. From 19 195 women with affected siblings, 1126 developed endometriosis with an incidence of 35.45/10 000 person-years. Familial risk of endometriosis with versus without affected siblings was increased to IRR 2.75 (95% CI 2.25-3.36), and the highest risk was with affected twins (IRR 6.98; 95% CI 4.19-11.62). Women with both a family history and either smoking, early menarche or low BMI had a significantly higher risk of endometriosis compared with the general population and can be regarded as a high-risk group, the IRRs were 4.28 (95% CI 2.43-7.55), 3.47 (95% CI 2.82-4.26) and 3.09 (95% CI 2.68-3.56), respectively. Substantial effect modification of the associations was noted by smoking and early menarche, as their combined risk with family history exceeded the sum of their individual risks, which was also statistically significant. Genetic factors are the primary contributor to the familial aggregation of endometriosis. Significant gene-environment interaction exists between family history and smoking or early menarche. Significant gene-environment interaction exists between family history of endometriosis and smoking or early menarche.

Identification of factors which influence health after a cardiovascular disease (CVD) event will assist with reducing the high health and economic burden of CVD. We undertook a systematic review to investigate the association between social health (lower social isolation, higher social support and lower loneliness) and health and well-being after a CVD event among people living in Australia and New Zealand. Four electronic databases were systematically searched until June 2020. Two reviewers undertook title/abstract screen. One reviewer undertook full-text screen and data extraction. A second author either independently extracted or checked data. Narrative thematic analysis was undertaken. Of the 752 unique records retrieved, 39 papers from 29 studies met our inclusion criteria. Included studies recruited between 10 and 1,455 participants, aged 12-96 years, and the majority were male. Greater social health was consistently associated with better mental health outcomes (lower depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms and psychological distress). Lower social isolation and higher social support were associated with the extent to which patient needs were being met. Living situation was not associated with mental health outcomes, and being married or living with someone was associated with greater medication adherence. Our systematic review demonstrates that greater social health is associated with better mental health outcomes and met patient needs among cardiac patients. As partner status and living status did not align with social isolation and social support findings in this review, we recommend they not be used as social health proxies when assessing health outcomes among CVD patients. Our review highlights the need for more research focused on women and the importance of gender-disaggregated reporting. Further assessment is required to evaluate whether loneliness is associated with health and well-being outcomes after a CVD event.

Recent advances in metagenomic technology and computational prediction may inadvertently weaken an individual's reasonable expectation of privacy. Through cross-kingdom genetic and metagenomic forensics, we can already predict at least a dozen human phenotypes with varying degrees of accuracy. There is also growing potential to detect a "molecular echo" of an individual's microbiome from cells deposited on public surfaces. At present, host genetic data from somatic or germ cells provide more reliable information than microbiome samples. However, the emerging ability to infer personal details from different microscopic biological materials left behind on surfaces requires in-depth ethical and legal scrutiny. There is potential to identify and track individuals, along with new, surreptitious means of genetic discrimination. This commentary underscores the need to update legal and policy frameworks for genetic privacy with additional considerations for the information that could be acquired from microbiome-derived data. The article also aims to stimulate ubiquitous discourse to ensure the protection of genetic rights and liberties in the post-genomic era. Video abstract.

Based on the World Health Organization (WHO), workplace violence can affect events where employees are abused, attacked or threatened in their workplace, and it also has some consequences such as safety, welfare, and health. Like other types of violence, workplace violence and aggression are an increasing phenomenon. Moreover, workplace violence not only disrupts interpersonal and organizational relationships, but it also impairs the persons self-esteem and affects their physical and mental health and well-being. Thus, this study aimed to explain the components of workplace violence against nurses from the perspective of women working in a hospital in Tehran, which was conducted through the qualitative method and content analysis. In this study Purposive sampling included 21 female nurses who were working in different wards of the hospital. Also, female nurses were selected with maximum diversity in terms of work experience, age, and the wards they were working in. in this study the semi-structured interview was the main method of data collection. The interview transcriptions were extracted and then divided into meaningful units. For strengthening and confirming the results and accuracy of the research, the author used the data acceptability, credibility, accuracy, validity, believability, verifiability, reliability, and transferability. During the data analysis process of this study, the first 15 classes with the same characteristics were put together and then divided into 6 classes. Afterwards, based on the common features at a more abstract level, they were converted into 2 themes. Based on the findings, violence against women in the workplace occurs at two levels, that namely interpersonal violence and organizational coercion. Therefore, it is necessary for managers to commit to lay the groundwork for reducing violence in the hospital, as well as barriers to report these cases especially the hospital managers and officials should create awareness on workplace among the staff, patient and visitors and must ensure stringent actions to prevent it.

in recent years, many Asian countries have witnessed an intensification in populist discourses identifying the death penalty as a central tool of drug control, with public opinion surveys referred to as invaluable evidence of public support for the death penalty. This paper will address the claim that the public supports capital punishment, and the role of surveys in shaping this discourse. review of thirty-nine public opinion surveys on the death penalty carried out in five Asian countries which retain the death penalty for drugs or are considering re-introducing it. The review was conducted by analysing and comparing design, methodology, findings, and the relationship between these elements. all but two surveys recorded a majoritarian support for the death penalty, driven by beliefs in (a) deterrent effect of the death penalty, and (b) perfect justice - both disproven. Complex surveys found a low intensity of support, and a limited interest and knowledge by the public in capital punishment. Support for capital punishment is lower for drug offences specifically, and it decreases significantly when expressed with reference to real-life cases. Limited data suggest that the public in the focus countries has reservations on the effectiveness of the death penalty to reduce drug offences, and prefers a discretionary system of punishment. The analysis also revealed correlations between the framing of survey questions and their findings. Public opinion surveys conducted in China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand suggest that the public knows little and has little interest in the death penalty. Although majoritarian, its support is based on a faulty understanding of key facts related to capital punishment, and an increase in knowledge is correlated to a decrease in support. More rigorous polling exercises demonstrate that public support for capital punishment - both in general and for drug offences specifically - is instinctive, abstract, elastic, and contextual.

Parents of a child with cancer want to be involved in making treatment decisions for their child. Underpinning and informing these decisions are parents' individual values and preferences. Parents of a child who has a poor prognosis cancer and who subsequently dies can experience decisional regret. To support parents, and potentially reduce decisional regret, identifying the values and preferences of parents who are making these treatment decisions may enhance the support that can be provided by healthcare professionals. An increased understanding will support future work in this area and identify research gaps that could strengthen support strategies in clinical practice. The aim of this scoping review is to explore parent values and preferences underpinning treatment decision making when their child is receiving cancer-directed therapy for a poor prognosis cancer. The Joanna Briggs Institute scoping review methodology will be followed. An initial database search of CINHAL and MEDLINE will be conducted to analyse the keywords using subject headings and Medical Subject Headings terms. Articles will be initially screened on title and abstract. The reference and citation lists of the full-text articles to be included will be searched using Web of Science. Articles will be independently reviewed by two reviewers and any discrepancies discussed with a third reviewer. Data extracted will be presented in tabular, diagrams and descriptive summaries. Ethical approval is not required for this scoping review. This review will inform further research with parents to understand their values and preferences when making repeated treatment decisions when their child has a poor prognosis cancer. All outputs will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.This scoping review is registered on the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/n7j9f).

Available evidence suggests that some racial/ethnic minority populations may be disproportionately burdened by dementia. Cohort studies are an important tool for defining and understanding the causes behind these racial and ethnic inequalities. However, ethnic minority populations may be more likely to be excluded from such research. Therefore, the aim of this study is to systematically investigate and quantify racial and ethnic minority representation in dementia risk factor research. The elements of this protocol have been designed in accordance with the relevant sections of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis Protocols which are specifically applicable to scoping review protocols. We will include population-based cohort studies looking at risk factors for dementia incidence in our review and assess the representation of racial and ethnic minority populations in these studies. We will use multiple strategies to identify relevant studies, including a systematic search of the following electronic databases: MEDLINE (Ovid SP), Embase (Ovid SP) and Scopus. Two review authors will independently perform title and abstract screening, full-text screening and data extraction. Included cohort studies will be evaluated using a comprehensive framework to assess racial/ethnic minority representation. Logistic regression will also be performed to describe associations between cohort study characteristics and outcomes related to racial and ethnic minority representation. Formal ethical approval is not required to conduct this review as no primary data are to be collected. The final results of this scoping review will be disseminated through publication in peer-reviewed journals and conference presentations.

To provide updated information about between-country variations, temporal trends and changes in inequalities within countries in caesarean delivery (CD) rates. Cross-sectional study of Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) during 1990-2018. 74 low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Women 15-49 years of age who had live births in the last 3 years. Bayesian linear regression analysis was performed and absolute differences were calculated. Population-level CD by countries and sociodemographic characteristics of mothers over time. CD rates, based on the latest DHS rounds, varied substantially between the study countries, from 1.5% (95% CI 1.1-1.9%) in Madagascar to 58.9% (95% CI 56.0-61.6%) in the Dominican Republic. Of 62 LMICs with at least two surveys, 57 countries showed a rise in CD during 1990-2018, with the greatest increase in Sierra Leone (19.3%). Large variations in CD rates were observed across mother's wealth, residence, education and age, with a higher rate of CD by the richest and urban mothers. These inequalities have widened in many countries. Stratified analyses suggest greater provisioning of CD by the richest mothers in private facilities and poorest mothers in public facilities. CD rates varied substantially across geographical locations and over time, irrespective of public or private health facilities. Changes in CD rates continue across wealth, place of residence, education, and age of mother, and are widening in most study countries. Increasing caesarean delivery rates were greater among the richest and urban mothers than their counterparts, with widened gaps in LMICs.

The present study undertakes a scoping review aimed to map the evidence of intimate partner violence (IPV) against women living with HIV/AIDS in Africa. We used the online database to identify papers published from 1 January 2009 to 1 April 2019, from which we selected 21 articles from Uganda, Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa, Zambia, Ethiopia, Cameroon, Tanzania and Swaziland that used IPV as an outcome variable among women living with HIV/AIDS. PubMed, MEDLINE, EBSCO host, Google Scholar. We included women who were aged 15 years and above, living with HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa. We conducted the abstract screening with two independent reviewers. We also performed full-text screening. We used the six methodological frameworks proposed by Arksey and O'Malley. The Mixed Method Appraisal Tool was used to determine the quality of the studies. We used NVIVO software V.12 to undertake a thematic analysis. Of the studies, the majority, 57.1%, reported cross-sectional results. In comparison, 23.8% examined qualitative studies, 9.5% were clinical trials, 4.8% were cohort studies and the remaining 4.8% covered grey literature. This review revealed evidence of IPV experience among women with HIV/AIDS, evidence of how HIV status disclosure influences IPV, proof of the association of sociodemographic characteristics with IPV and implications for practice. Moreover, the review revealed that following the serostatus disclosure, there is evidence of heightened risk for IPV. This study found evidence of IPV among women living with HIV/AIDS. The HIV-positive women were at considerable risk of IPV after disclosure of their serostatus to a male partner. Therefore, further research is needed to promote action to reduce IPV among HIV-positive and HIV-negative women and to determine healthcare workers' IPV screening experience.

Asian Americans have been understudied in the literature on genetic and genomic services. The current study systematically identified, evaluated, and summarized findings from relevant qualitative and quantitative studies on genetic health care for Asian Americans. A search of five databases (1990 to 2018) returned 8,522 unique records. After removing duplicates, abstract/title screening, and full text review, 47 studies met inclusion criteria. Data from quantitative studies were converted into "qualitized data" and pooled together with thematic data from qualitative studies to produce a set of integrated findings. Synthesis of results revealed that (1) Asian Americans are under-referred but have high uptake for genetic services, (2) linguistic/communication challenges were common and Asian Americans expected more directive genetic counseling, and (3) Asian Americans' family members were involved in testing decisions, but communication of results and risk information to family members was lower than other racial groups. This study identified multiple barriers to genetic counseling, testing, and care for Asian Americans, as well as gaps in the research literature. By focusing on these barriers and filling these gaps, clinical genetic approaches can be tailored to meet the needs of diverse patient groups, particularly those of Asian descent.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The death of a client to suicide evokes a range of grief responses for mental health nurses (MHNs), which vary in intensity according to the nature of the therapeutic relationship with the deceased client. There are limited qualitative studies on the experiences of nurses working in the community and the personal or professional strategies used by nurses to cope with the death of a client by suicide. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Following a client suicide, MHNs were often left to carry the burden of grief alone and to care for themselves with the support of their family and colleagues. While all participants perceived the need for support following the death of a client by suicide, they were offered minimal support beyond the debriefing meetings, with their grief experience being largely unacknowledged and disenfranchised. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: MHNs and services need to establish and promote a culture of openness in which suicide is anticipated as a possible outcome, even with excellent standards of care and wherein all staff are supported and encouraged to discuss and reflect on their concerns and fears during the aftermath of a client suicide. As MHNs are often left to carry the burden of grief alone, services need to recognize the emotional cost of embodied engagement with clients and families and provide the necessary supports. ABSTRACT: Introduction Experiencing a client's death through suicide is complex and challenging, yet limited research exists on how MHNs might deal with its aftermath. Aim This study aimed to explore the impact and responses of MHNs to a client suicide. Method The study design is a secondary analysis of an existing data set involving semi-structured interview with 33 MHNs that were analysed using the principles of grounded theory. To answer the secondary question on the impact and responses of MHNs to the death of a client by suicide a subset of the data from 10 participants who experienced the death of a client by suicide were re-analysed using thematic analysis. Ethical approval was granted by the university ethics committee. Findings The findings identified five themes: "Hearing the news," "Experiencing the impact of grief," "Grieving privately" "Searching for meaning" and "Questioning practice." Discussion Findings highlighted that although participants perceived the need for support, they were offered minimal support beyond the debriefing meetings, with their grief experience being largely unacknowledged and disenfranchised. Implications for practice MHN services need to promote a culture of openness wherein all MHNs are supported and encouraged to discuss their concerns and fears during the aftermath of a client suicide.

Temporal binding (TB) refers to an underestimation of time intervals between two events, most commonly for actions and their effects. This temporal contraction is measurable for both perceived changes in social stimuli such as faces, as well as for interactions with a partner. We investigated TB in two separate experiments to uncover the individual influences of (i) participants' belief in an interaction with a human partner (as compared to a computer), and (ii) a face-like stimulus versus an abstract stimulus mediating the interaction. The results show that TB is more pronounced when self-initiated actions result in a personal event as opposed to a mere physical effect, being suggestive of a "social hyperbinding." The social hyperbinding effect appeared to be driven both by the belief in interacting with another person and by a face-like stimulus. However, there seemed to be no further enhancing effect when combining the top-down processes ("beliefs") with the bottom-up processes ("perceptions"). These findings suggest a prioritization of social information for TB regardless of whether this information is introduced by top-down (beliefs) or bottom-up information (stimuli). Our results add to existing literature demonstrating an increase in action-event monitoring for social cues.

Sexual and gender minority youth (SGMY) are overrepresented in the foster care system and experience greater foster-care-related stressors than their non-SGM peers. These factors may further elevate their risk of anxiety/depressive, post-traumatic stress disorder, self-harm, and suicidality. The system currently produces unequal and disproportionate adverse mental health outcomes for SGMY and needs points of intervention to disrupt this status quo. This article provides an empirically grounded conceptual-theoretical model of disproportionate representation and burden of psychological comorbidities experienced by SGMY in the foster care system. We apply findings from an integrated literature review of empirical research on factors related to overrepresentation and mental health burden among SGMY to minority stress theory to explicate how and why the foster care system exacerbates mental health comorbidities for SGMY. Searches were conducted in June 2020 in PubMed using MeSH terms and title/abstract terms for foster care, sexual or gender minorities, and psychological comorbidities. Inclusion criteria are studies conducted in the United States, published in English, focused on mental illness, and published between June 2010 and 2020. Developmental/intellectual and eating disorders were excluded. The initial search returned 490 results. After applying inclusion criteria, 229 results remained and are utilized to build our conceptual-theoretical model. We assert that the phenomenon of disproportionate psychological comorbidities for SGMY in foster care is best represented as a complex and dynamic system with multiple feedback loops. Extant empirical and theoretical literature identifies three critical areas for intervention: family acceptance, community belonging and queer chosen/constructed family, and affirming and nondiscriminatory child welfare policy.

Whilst positive ethnic identity is associated with higher self-esteem, prosocial tendencies and peer acceptance, it is inversely associated with depressive symptoms and drug use among ethnic minority individuals. Negotiating ethnic identity is particularly challenging for 1.5-and second-generation migrant populations, finding themselves positioned between host culture and culture of origin. To inform positive youth development policies and practices, this systematic literature review aimed to identify factors influencing the negotiation of ethnic identity for 1.5-and second-generation Asian migrants living in high-income countries. A mixed-methods systematic review was conducted of peer-reviewed literature in four databases: MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsychInfo and Scopus. Articles were screened by title, abstract and full text to ascertain whether they met the inclusion criteria. Quality of studies were assessed using MMAT Version 2011. Mixed-method thematic analysis was used to synthesis the data according to Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Model. Forty-seven studies met the inclusion criteria. The review findings confirm a wide range of factors influencing the negotiation of ethnic identity from three systems in Bronfenbrenner's Ecological Model, most commonly from the macrosystem (e.g stereotyping), followed by microsystem (e.g family) and individual factors (e.g heritage language use). Results indicate negotiating ethnic identity can be challenging and difficult, where the culture/norms of country of origin and host country play a significant role. Positive youth development policies and practices need to reflect these wide range of factors. More research is needed in countries where data is not available to facilitate greater response to needs of this increasing population group.

The Sustainable Development Goals, which are grounded in human rights, involve empowering women and girls and ensuring that everyone can access sexual and reproductive health and rights (Goal 5). This is the first systematic review reporting interventions involving rights-based approaches for sexual and reproductive health issues including gender-based violence, maternity, HIV and sexually transmitted infections in low and middle-income countries. To describe the evidence on rights-based approaches to sexual and reproductive health in low and middle-income countries. EMBASE, MEDLINE and Web of Science were searched until 9/1/2020. Inclusion criteria were: Study design: any interventional study.Population: females aged over 15 living in low and middle-income countries.Intervention: a "rights-based approach" (defined by the author) and/or interventions that the author explicitly stated related to "rights".Comparator: clusters in which no intervention or fewer components of an intervention were in place, or individuals not exposed to interventions, or exposed to fewer intervention components.Outcome: Sexual and reproductive health related outcomes. A narrative synthesis of included studies was undertaken, and outcomes mapped to identify evidence gaps. The systematic review protocol was registered on PROSPERO (CRD42019158950). Database searching identified 17,212 records, and 13,404 studies remained after de-duplication. Twenty-four studies were included after title and abstract, full-text and reference-list screening by two authors independently. Rights-based interventions were effective for some included outcomes, but evidence was of poor quality. Testing uptake for HIV and/or other sexually transmitted infections, condom use, and awareness of rights improved with intervention, but all relevant studies were at high, critical or serious risk of bias. No study included gender-based violence outcomes. Considerable risk of bias in all studies means results must be interpreted with caution. High-quality controlled studies are needed urgently in this area.

The safety planning intervention (SPI) is gaining momentum in suicide prevention practice and research. This systematic review sought to determine the effectiveness of the SPI for adults experiencing suicide-related distress. Systematic searches of international, peer-reviewed literature were conducted in six databases (Cochrane Trials, Embase, Emcare, Medline, PsycINFO and Web of Science), including terms for safety planning, suicide, and suicide-related outcomes. A total of 565 results were included for screening. Result screening (title/abstract and full-text), data extraction and critical appraisal were conducted in duplicate. Twenty-six studies met the inclusion criteria. Studies were primarily quantitative (

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The role of informal caregiver can have both negative and positive consequences for a person's well-being. The main theoretical framework for explaining these consequences is the stress process model, which considers contextual variables, stressors and mediating/moderating factors. The latter are psychosocial factors such as coping strategies, personal mastery, social support or beliefs and values which may influence caregiver well-being. The perception of gains in caregiving has also been proposed as a mediating variable since it may act as a coping strategy. However, few studies have examined values and perceived gains as mediating variables with life satisfaction as the outcome. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study explores the role of character strengths and caregiver gains as mediators between stressors and life satisfaction in informal caregivers of persons with dementia. The results identify hope as a key character strength, its lack being one pathway through which stress may lead to low life satisfaction and low perceived gains from caregiving. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Caregivers who experience a lack of hope may be less able to generate goals and be less motivated to achieve them. Our findings are relevant to gerontological nursing based on the Senses Framework as they confirm the importance of the senses of purpose and achievement. Nursing and care staff can play an active role in helping informal caregivers to meet their goals by promoting these two senses, thereby fostering a more positive caregiving experience. ABSTRACT: Introduction Being an informal caregiver can have both negative and positive consequences for well-being. Within the framework of the stress process model, few studies have examined values and perceived gains of caregiving as mediating variables of life satisfaction. Aim To explore the role of character strengths and perceived gains as mediators in the association between life satisfaction and primary and secondary stressors in informal caregivers of persons with dementia. Method Participants were 112 informal caregivers. Hierarchical regression, correlation and mediation analyses were performed. Results Lower life satisfaction was associated with being female, unmarried, caring for someone with greater cognitive impairment, a higher level of stress, having restricted leisure time and perceiving financial difficulties. Hope mediated the associations between perceived stress and both life satisfaction and perceived gains of caregiving. Discussion Hope is a key strength and its lack is one pathway through which stress may cause low satisfaction and low perceived gains from caregiving. Implications for practice Without hope, it is difficult for caregivers to generate goals and be motivated to achieve them. Nursing and care staff should aim to promote a sense of purpose and achievement among informal caregivers so as to foster a more positive caring experience.

Pesticide poisoning is among the most common means of suicide globally, but can be prevented with regulation of the most hazardous agents. We aimed to compare the lethality of pesticides ingested by our cohort, seek evidence on variation between human and regulatory animal toxicity, and establish change over time in the case fatality of individual pesticides in Sri Lanka. We examined the case fatality of agricultural pesticides in a prospective cohort in nine hospitals serving rural populations in Sri Lanka. We included all patients (>11 years) who had presented to a South Asian Clinical Toxicology Research Collaboration study hospital during the study period. Patients were enrolled by clinical research assistants and were regularly reviewed. Identification of the ingested pesticide was generally on the basis of history or positive identification of the container, supported by nested blood analysis. From March 31, 2002, to Dec 31, 2019, 34 902 patients (median age 29 years [IQR 21-40]; 23 060 [66·1%] male) presented with a possible or known pesticide self-poisoning. We identified 23 139 specific pesticides that were ingested. Poisoning was fatal in 2299 (6·6%) patients. Case fatality varied greatly from 0·0% (several substances) to 41·8% (paraquat). The three most toxic agents (ie, paraquat, dimethoate, and fenthion) were banned between 2008 and 2011. Since 2013, the five agents causing the most deaths (ie, profenofos, propanil, fenobucarb, carbosulfan, and quinalphos) had a case fatality of 7·2-8·6%. A steady decline was seen in overall case fatality of pesticide poisoning (10·5% for 2002-06 to 3·7% for 2013-19), largely attributable to pesticide bans. A modest fall in case fatality for non-banned pesticides was also seen. Declines seen in case fatalities of poisonings with non-banned pesticides suggest that medical management improved over time. The human data for acute toxicity of pesticides should drive hazard classifications and regulation. We believe that a global benchmark for registration of pesticides should include a less than 5% case fatality after self-poisoning, which could prevent many deaths and have a substantial effect on global suicide rates. The Wellcome Trust and the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia. For the Sinhala and Tamil translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Targeted therapy has shown to be a very effective treatment in tumors with specific genomic drivers. Trk has proven to be one such target. Efforts to target the Trk fusion with specific inhibitors have shown remarkable responses in a tumor agnostic fashion, with responses seen even in patients with intracranial metastasis. Entrectinib is a first-generation Trk inhibitor with impressive activity in early phase trials performed in patients with 

Scientific criteria to identify endocrine disruptors (ED) was recently implemented for plant protection products (PPP) and biocidal products (BP). A guidance document has been published by ECHA and EFSA in the context of ED criteria for PPPs and BPs. In the present work, a case study was performed on Bisphenol AF (BPAF) to explore the application of the EU criteria and EFSA/ECHA guidance document for the ED assessment of a non-pesticide chemical regulated under REACH. A data dossier was built by a systematic literature search (Web of Science, Pubmed, Embase; n = 511), title/abstract screening (n = 124) and full text examination (n = 88). All the information was extracted and systematically reported for 309 parameters (100 for adversity; 209 for endocrine activity). The reliability of studies was assessed (SciRAP tool). Data were synthesized into 96 lines of evidence for adversity (n = 57), and endocrine activity (n = 39); and assessed by weight of evidence methodology. The initial analysis of the evidence indicated EATS-mediated adversity in mammals, therefore a mode of action (MoA) was postulated for both male and female adult exposure. Female MoA included estrogen receptor activation and altered steroidogenesis leading to ovarian dysfunction, altered estrous cycling and impaired female fertility. Male MoA was initiated by androgen receptor inhibition and altered steroidogenesis leading to dysfunction of male reproductive organs and impaired male fertility. The overall conclusion of the ED assessment indicated that BPAF meets the ED criteria for human health. The steps described in the ED guidance document were successfully completed, resulting in a thorough, structured and transparent identification of BPAF as an ED. Advantages and limitations of applying the ED criteria and guidance for a REACH chemical are discussed.

NO abstract intended, Introduction is listed here The COVID-19 pandemic and call for social justice is occurring when the United States, unlike its peer countries, has already experienced a steady 20-year rise in maternal morbidity and mortality with pregnant women today facing a 50 percent higher risk of mortality than their mothers. 1 Most vulnerable are women of color, black and American Indian/Alaska Native women, who have experienced longstanding disparities in access to and quality of healthcare and may begin pregnancy with hypertension, diabetes, and obesity, complications known to be more common in women enduring segregation. 2-4 Initially, the race-related health disparities and resultant disproportionately higher rates of COVID-19 cases and mortality in indigenous communities and black, latinx, or other communities of color were mistakenly considered innate racial differences. More recently, these higher rates have been attributed to underlying social, structural, and environmental determinants of health including resource inequities, inadequate housing, and occupational and environmental hazards that result in greater exposure to and less protection from COVID-19. 5,6 Augmented by the added physiologic stress of pregnancy, these comorbidities and disparities compound the risk of pregnancy-associated cardiomyopathy, thromboembolism, and hemorrhage, often resulting in lasting physical and mental health consequences.

Exposure to second-hand smoke from tobacco is a major contributor to global morbidity and mortality. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a community-based smoke-free-home intervention, with or without indoor-air-quality feedback, in reducing second-hand-smoke exposure in homes in Bangladesh. We did a three-arm, cluster-randomised, controlled trial in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and randomly assigned (1:1:1) mosques and consenting households from their congregations to a smoke-free-home intervention plus indoor-air-quality feedback, smoke-free-home intervention only, or usual services. Households were eligible if they had at least one resident attending one of the participating mosques, at least one adult resident (age 18 years or older) who smoked cigarettes or other forms of smoked tobacco (eg, bidi, waterpipe) regularly (on at least 25 days per month), and at least one non-smoking resident of any age. The smoke-free-home intervention consisted of weekly health messages delivered within an Islamic discourse by religious leaders at mosques over 12 weeks. Indoor-air-quality feedback comprised providing households with feedback on their indoor air quality measured over 24 h. Households in the usual services group received no intervention. Masking of participants and mosque leaders was not possible. The primary outcome was the 24-h mean household airborne fine particulate matter (<2·5 microns in diameter [PM Between April 11 and Aug 2, 2018, we enrolled 1801 households from 45 mosques. 640 households (35·5%) were assigned to the smoke-free-home intervention plus indoor-air-quality feedback group, 560 (31·1%) to the smoke-free-home intervention only group, and 601 (33·4%) to the usual services group. At 12 months, the adjusted mean difference in household mean 24-h PM The smoke-free-home intervention, with or without indoor-air-quality feedback, was neither effective nor cost-effective in reducing household second-hand-smoke exposure compared with usual services. These interventions are therefore not recommended for Bangladesh. Medical Research Council UK. For the Bengali translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

COVID-19 spread rapidly in Brazil despite the country's well established health and social protection systems. Understanding the relationships between health-system preparedness, responses to COVID-19, and the pattern of spread of the epidemic is particularly important in a country marked by wide inequalities in socioeconomic characteristics (eg, housing and employment status) and other health risks (age structure and burden of chronic disease). From several publicly available sources in Brazil, we obtained data on health risk factors for severe COVID-19 (proportion of the population with chronic disease and proportion aged ≥60 years), socioeconomic vulnerability (proportions of the population with housing vulnerability or without formal work), health-system capacity (numbers of intensive care unit beds and physicians), coverage of health and social assistance, deaths from COVID-19, and state-level responses of government in terms of physical distancing policies. We also obtained data on the proportion of the population staying at home, based on locational data, as a measure of physical distancing adherence. We developed a socioeconomic vulnerability index (SVI) based on household characteristics and the Human Development Index. Data were analysed at the state and municipal levels. Descriptive statistics and correlations between state-level indicators were used to characterise the relationship between the availability of health-care resources and socioeconomic characteristics and the spread of the epidemic and the response of governments and populations in terms of new investments, legislation, and physical distancing. We used linear regressions on a municipality-by-month dataset from February to October, 2020, to characterise the dynamics of COVID-19 deaths and response to the epidemic across municipalities. The initial spread of COVID-19 was mostly affected by patterns of socioeconomic vulnerability as measured by the SVI rather than population age structure and prevalence of health risk factors. The states with a high (greater than median) SVI were able to expand hospital capacity, to enact stringent COVID-19-related legislation, and to increase physical distancing adherence in the population, although not sufficiently to prevent higher COVID-19 mortality during the initial phase of the epidemic compared with states with a low SVI. Death rates accelerated until June, 2020, particularly in municipalities with the highest socioeconomic vulnerability. Throughout the following months, however, differences in policy response converged in municipalities with lower and higher SVIs, while physical distancing remained relatively higher and death rates became relatively lower in the municipalities with the highest SVIs compared with those with lower SVIs. In Brazil, existing socioeconomic inequalities, rather than age, health status, and other risk factors for COVID-19, have affected the course of the epidemic, with a disproportionate adverse burden on states and municipalities with high socioeconomic vulnerability. Local government responses and population behaviour in the states and municipalities with higher socioeconomic vulnerability have helped to contain the effects of the epidemic. Targeted policies and actions are needed to protect those with the greatest socioeconomic vulnerability. This experience could be relevant in other low-income and middle-income countries where socioeconomic vulnerability varies greatly. None. For the Portuguese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Higher availability of firearms has been connected to higher rates of interpersonal violence in previous studies. Yet, those studies have focused mainly on the United States, or used aggregated international data to study firearm violence. Whether those aggregated findings are applicable to understanding the phenomenon in continental Europe specifically remains unclear. The aim of this systematic review is to bring together all studies that exclusively use European data. Nine databases were searched, resulting in more than 1900 individual studies. These studies were assessed on relevance and eligibility for this study, based on their title, abstract and full text. Information on study characteristics, operationalizations of main concepts and study results were extracted from the six eligible studies. Four studies assessed the impact of firearm restrictive regulations on the rate of firearm homicides. Two other studies correlated rates of firearm availability and -violence. Results vary: some studies show a clear decline once availability of firearms is restricted, while others indicate a limited effect on only a very specific subgroup, such as female victims, or national guards with weapons at home. Moreover, studies used various operationalizations for firearm availability, thereby decreasing the comparability of findings. Empirical research exclusively using European data is still lacking. To increase comparability of future studies, methodological inconsistencies and regional gaps need to be overcome. Assessing how firearm availability can be measured with reliable and valid proxies across countries will be a crucial first step to improve future research on the link between firearms and firearm violence.

Compared with those with a higher socio-economic position (SEP), individuals with a lower SEP have higher cancer morbidity and mortality. However, the contribution of modifiable risk factors to these inequities is not known. This study aimed to quantify the mediating effects of modifiable risk factors to associations between SEP and cancer morbidity and mortality. This study used a prospective observational cohort design. We combined eight cycles of the Canadian Community Health Survey (2000/2001-2011) as baseline data to identify a cohort of adults (≥35 years) without cancer at the time of survey administration (n = 309 800). The cohort was linked to the Discharge Abstract Database and the Canadian Mortality Database for cancer morbidity and mortality ascertainment. Individuals were followed from the date they completed the Canadian Community Health Survey until 31 March 2013. Dates of individual first hospitalizations for cancer and deaths due to cancer were captured during this time period. SEP was operationalized using a latent variable combining measures of education and household income. Self-reported modifiable risk factors, including smoking, excess alcohol consumption, low fruit-and-vegetable intake, physical inactivity and obesity, were considered as potential mediators. Generalized structural equation modelling was used to estimate the mediating effects of modifiable risk factors in associations between low SEP and cancer morbidity and mortality in the total population and stratified by sex. Modifiable risk factors together explained 45.6% of associations between low SEP and overall cancer morbidity and mortality. Smoking was the most important mediator in the total population and for males, accounting for 15.5% and 40.2% of the total effect, respectively. For females, obesity was the most important mediator. Modifiable risk factors are important mediators of socio-economic inequities in cancer morbidity and mortality. Nevertheless, more than half of the variance in these associations remained unexplained. Midstream interventions that target modifiable risk factors may help to alleviate inequities in cancer risk in the short term. However, ultimately, upstream interventions that target structural determinants of health are needed to reduce overall socio-economic inequities in cancer morbidity and mortality.

Temperature and rainfall patterns are known to influence seasonal patterns of dengue transmission. However, the effect of severe drought and extremely wet conditions on the timing and intensity of dengue epidemics is poorly understood. In this study, we aimed to quantify the non-linear and delayed effects of extreme hydrometeorological hazards on dengue risk by level of urbanisation in Brazil using a spatiotemporal model. We combined distributed lag non-linear models with a spatiotemporal Bayesian hierarchical model framework to determine the exposure-lag-response association between the relative risk (RR) of dengue and a drought severity index. We fit the model to monthly dengue case data for the 558 microregions of Brazil between January, 2001, and January, 2019, accounting for unobserved confounding factors, spatial autocorrelation, seasonality, and interannual variability. We assessed the variation in RR by level of urbanisation through an interaction between the drought severity index and urbanisation. We also assessed the effect of hydrometeorological hazards on dengue risk in areas with a high frequency of water supply shortages. The dataset included 12 895 293 dengue cases reported between 2001 and 2019 in Brazil. Overall, the risk of dengue increased between 0-3 months after extremely wet conditions (maximum RR at 1 month lag 1·56 [95% CI 1·41-1·73]) and 3-5 months after drought conditions (maximum RR at 4 months lag 1·43 [1·22-1·67]). Including a linear interaction between the drought severity index and level of urbanisation improved the model fit and showed the risk of dengue was higher in more rural areas than highly urbanised areas during extremely wet conditions (maximum RR 1·77 [1·32-2·37] at 0 months lag vs maximum RR 1·58 [1·39-1·81] at 2 months lag), but higher in highly urbanised areas than rural areas after extreme drought (maximum RR 1·60 [1·33-1·92] vs 1·15 [1·08-1·22], both at 4 months lag). We also found the dengue risk following extreme drought was higher in areas that had a higher frequency of water supply shortages. Wet conditions and extreme drought can increase the risk of dengue with different delays. The risk associated with extremely wet conditions was higher in more rural areas and the risk associated with extreme drought was exacerbated in highly urbanised areas, which have water shortages and intermittent water supply during droughts. These findings have implications for targeting mosquito control activities in poorly serviced urban areas, not only during the wet and warm season, but also during drought periods. Royal Society, Medical Research Council, Wellcome Trust, National Institutes of Health, Fundação Carlos Chagas Filho de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, and Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico. For the Portuguese translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Teaching young people about "privacy" has serious defects if the goal is to promote children's online safety. This commentary points out some the key problems to programs and educational modules with this privacy orientation. Privacy is an abstract and complicated concept, whose norms are in flux, making it difficult to impart clear, relevant, consensus-based messages. We also know very little about how privacy concepts develop in childhood and at what age and in what sequence, making it hard to know what to teach and when. Privacy skills are not necessarily the most important ones for preventing most online harms, including the most serious ones, casting doubt on whether they should receive priority over other prevention skills. Research has also not clearly established connections between many privacy practices and reductions in harm. Most privacy messaging has not been evaluated for how well it is learned, applied and what forms of safety it enhances. As an alternative, the promotion of online safety is best organized, not around privacy, but around the specific harms that educators and children themselves are trying to prevent. The highest priority of these are sexual exploitation, peer bullying and harassment. Such educational safety programs are best built from the foundation of evidence-based programs related to parallel offline dangers.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Aggression and violence are persistent problems in psychiatric inpatient units. Violence preventive factors have been identified from both staff's and patients' perspectives. Violent and aggressive inpatient incidents have not been adequately explained in research and reviews to date. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This review is novel in that it provides a comparison of patients' and staff's perspectives and identified that these differ and were influenced by factors attributable to the inpatient culture. The one contributory factor both agreed upon was the role of staff's interpersonal skills in either exacerbating or de-escalating aggression and violence. The inpatient culture was found to engender differing perceptions of most contributory factors to violence and aggression. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: While staff's interpersonal skills were identified as a primary influence on whether their interaction with patients contributed to aggression and violence, this was shaped by the inpatient environment's culture. Patient-centred interactional skills need to focus on the patients' needs for respect and active participation rather than engendering feelings of disrespect or coercion. Patient-centred communication skills that demonstrate an understanding of the patient's experience in the inpatient environment need to be core skills for mental health nurses. ABSTRACT: Introduction High rates of aggression and violence are a persistent problem in inpatient mental health environments. A comparison of staff's and patients' perceptions of the causes may provide novel insights. Aim This review aimed to compare patients' and staff's perspectives on the causes of aggression and violence in inpatient environments. Method An integrative review of the literature was conducted with a search of Ovid (Medline, Embase, PsycINFO) databases and manual searching. Results Thirty articles met criteria for inclusion. Interactions prior to aggressive or violent incidents were characterized by patients as disrespectful and coercive, and by staff as indicative of the patient's mental state or personality. Both groups identified the importance of patient-centred communication skills. Discussion The review identified that patients and staff have differing perspectives on the causes of violence and aggression. There was an interactional dynamic between staff and patients that was shaped by the culture of the inpatient setting. Implications for Practice Understanding how the inpatient culture plays a role in shaping a dynamic between patients and staff and developing communication skills that acknowledge this may help reduce violence and aggression in inpatient settings.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Coercive practices such as restraint (physically holding a person) or seclusion (containing a person in locked room) are frequently used in mental health care. How often and which specific practices are used is not consistent across different healthcare systems, hospitals or wards. Internationally, there is agreement on the need to monitor and reduce the use of coercive practices. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The reviewed evidence suggests a number of different factors affect a person's risk of experiencing coercive practices, while admitted to a mental health ward. However, there is currently not enough high-quality research evidence to say which factors are most important or how they work to influence the likelihood of a person experiencing coercive practice. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: When carrying out risk assessments, mental health professionals must take into account that a number of different factors are important and explore these with the patient. Care plans aimed at minimizing the use of coercive practices, such as restraint, must be personalized and developed with the individual. ABSTRACT: Introduction Coercive practices, such as physical restraint and seclusion, are a common feature of all mental healthcare systems. However, there is considerable variation in their use, concern about their iatrogenic potential and agreement internationally on the need to monitor and reduce their use. Aims To examine the evidence concerning risk factors associated with use of coercive practices in adults admitted to inpatient psychiatric services. Method A systematic review, consistent with PRIMSA guidelines, of four databases (PsychINFO, Medline, CINHAL and Embase). Peer-reviewed, English language articles from database inception to February 2020 were included. Methodological quality was assessed using the Quality Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies. Results Twenty studies met inclusion criteria. Risk factors examined in the studies organized around four categories: patient socio-demographic; patient clinical; staff; and organizational factors. Overall, methodological quality of papers was deemed weak, and there was insufficient evidence to support any singular risk factor. Discussion The reviewed evidence suggests risk of coercive practice in inpatient mental health settings is multifactorial. Further research to standardize concept definitions and elucidate the mechanisms behind variance in use is required. Implications for Practice Assessment of patients at risk of coercive practice must take a multifactorial approach.

Discrimination of anxiety disorders by parent ratings: A study based on the Questionnaire for Anxiety and Obsessive-Compulsive Disorders (FBB-ANZ) 

Strong family ties appear to buffer patient's and family members' difficult experiences during life and health crises. The family participatory dignity therapy programme, a patient-family-centred psychological intervention, was developed based on dignity therapy and performed by one therapist in the form of interview according to a specific question prompt. This study aimed to confirm the efficacy of the family participatory dignity therapy programme in improving the psychological well-being and family cohesion and adaptability of patients with haematologic malignancies and their family caregivers. A single-blinded, two-arm parallel group, randomised controlled trial was conducted. and Participants: Participants were patient-family caregiver dyads recruited from Fujian Medical University Union Hospital from March to September 2019. A total of 68 eligible dyads agreed to participate and were randomly assigned to the intervention group (n = 33) or control group receiving usual care (n = 35). Each pair of patient-family dyads in the intervention group received two or three interviews (each interview approximately lasting 45 to 60 min) performed by one therapist according to a specific question prompt containing 10 questions for patients and 10 corresponding questions for their family caregivers. To evaluate the effects of the intervention, we assessed patients' hope, spiritual well-being, and family cohesion and adaptability, as well as their family caregivers' depression, anxiety, and family cohesion and adaptability at baseline (T0), 1 week (T1), 4 weeks (T2), and 8 weeks post-intervention (T3) and compared the scores between the groups. A two-way repeated-measures analysis of variance was conducted to examine the effects of time, group, and their interaction. For patients, there was a significant difference in hope (p = 0.001), spiritual well-being (p = 0.002), and family cohesion (p<0.001) and adaptability (p<0.001) between the intervention and control groups. The difference over time was also significant in family cohesion (p = 0.018) and adaptability (p = 0.003). The interaction effects were significant for hope (p = 0.034), spiritual well-being (p<0.001), and family cohesion (p<0.001) and adaptability (p<0.001). For family caregivers, there was a significant difference in anxiety (p = 0.037), depression (p = 0.001), and family adaptability (p = 0.036) between the intervention and control groups. Within groups, a significant difference in family adaptability (p = 0.012) was found. Moreover, the interaction effects were significant on anxiety (p = 0.001) and family cohesion (p = 0.038). The family participatory dignity therapy programme showed a positive effect on promoting patients' hope, spiritual well-being, and family cohesion and adaptability; amongst family caregivers, it decreased anxiety and depression, and enhanced family cohesion and adaptability. Registration number: ChiCTR1900021433 Tweetable abstract: The family participatory dignity therapy programme promoted patients' hope, spiritual well-being, and family cohesion and adaptability, decreased their family caregivers' anxiety and depression, and enhanced the caregivers' family cohesion and adaptability.

Family/caregiver visitation provides critical support for patients confronting cancer and is associated with positive outcomes. However, the COVID-19 pandemic brought historic disruptions including widespread visitation restrictions. Here, we characterize in-depth the visitor policies of NCI-designated comprehensive cancer centers (CCCs) and analyze geographic/temporal patterns across CCCs. The public-facing CCC websites, including archived webpages, were reviewed to abstract initial visitation policies and revisions, including end-of-life (EoL) exceptions and timing of visitation restrictions relative to regional lockdowns. Chi-squared and Fisher's exact tests were employed to analyze associations between geographic region, timing, and severity of restrictions. Most CCCs (n=43, 86%) enacted visitation restrictions between March 15 and April 15, 2020. About half barred all visitors for COVID-negative inpatients (n=24, 48%) or outpatients (n=26, 52%). Most (n=36, 72%) prohibited visitors for patients with confirmed/suspected COVID-19. Most (n=40, 80%) published EoL exceptions but the specifics were highly variable. The median time from initial restrictions to government-mandated lockdowns was 1 day, with a wide range (25 days before to 26 days after). There was no association between timing of initial restrictions and geographic location (p=0.14) or severity of inpatient policies (p=1.0), even among centers in the same city. Outpatient policies published reactively (after lockdown) were more restrictive than those published proactively (p=0.04). CCCs enacted strict but strikingly variable COVID-19 visitation restrictions, with important implications for patients/families seeking cancer care. A unified, evidence-based approach to visitation policies is needed to balance proven infection control measures with the needs of patients and families.

The concept of 'child marriage' in global health distinguishes ostensibly harmful from healthy ages to marry at a universally-applied threshold of 18-years. With intensifying efforts to end child marriage, targeted communities are increasingly asked to change their perception of such marriages from relatively benign to profoundly problematic. The objective of this study is to understand how this shift in perception is navigated by adolescent girls and young women (AGYW). Using qualitative data collected in 2019 from a semi-urban community in Tanzania where marriage under 18-years is common and campaigns to end child marriage ongoing, we contrast reports of lived experiences of marriage under 18-years among AGYW to views of child marriage as an abstract concept. Thirteen in-depth interviews with AGYW, as part of a wider qualitative study, were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed using a framework analysis approach. While many AGYW had heard of child marriage, the concept was routinely conflated with forced marriage, which is rare in the community, and non-marital teenage sex and pregnancy, which are common. As a likely consequence, participants disagreed on whether or not child marriage occurs locally. Furthermore, accounts of real-life marriages under 18 sometimes aligned with, but often departed from, common narratives about the purported causes and harmful consequences inherent to the global health concept of child marriage. We argue that engaging with diverse local views and experiences of marrying young is essential to producing culturally-sensitive, effective initiatives addressing the vulnerabilities of female adolescence.

In an effort to improve perioperative and oncologic outcomes, there have been multiple quality improvement initiatives, including regionalization of high-risk procedures and hospital accreditation designations from independent organizations. These initiatives may, however, hinder access to high-quality surgical care for certain patients living in areas with high social vulnerability who may be disproportionally affected, leading to disparities in access and worse postoperative outcomes. Medicare beneficiaries who underwent liver or pancreas resection for cancer were identified using the 100% Medicare Inpatient Standard Analytic Files. Hospitals were designated as high-volume based on Leapfrog criteria. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's social vulnerability index database was used to abstract social vulnerability index information based on each beneficiary's county of residence at the time of operation. The probability that a patient received care at a high-volume hospital stratified by the social vulnerability of the patient's county of residence was examined. Risk-adjusted postoperative outcomes were compared across low, average, and high levels of vulnerability at both low- and high-volume hospitals. Among 16,978 Medicare beneficiaries who underwent a pancreatectomy (n = 13,393, 78%) or a liver resection (n = 3,594, 21.2%) for cancer, the mean age was 73.3 years (standard deviation: 5.8), nearly half the cohort was female (n = 7,819, 46%), and the overwhelming majority were White (n = 15,034, 88.5%). Mean social vulnerability index was 49.8 (standard deviation 24.8) and mean Charlson comorbidity index was 4.8 (standard deviation: 3). Overall, 8,251 (48.6%) of patients had their operations at a high-volume hospital, and 3,802 patients had their operations at a hospital with Magnet recognition. Age and sex were similar within the low-, average-, and high-social vulnerability index cohorts (P > .05); however, race differed across social vulnerability index groups. White patients made up 93% (n = 3,241) of the low social vulnerability index compared with 83.9% (n = 2,706) of the high-social vulnerability index group, whereas non-Whites made up 7% (n = 244) of the low-social vulnerability index group compared with 16.1% (n = 556) of the high-social vulnerability index group (P < .001). The risk-adjusted overall probability of having surgery at a high-volume hospital decreased as social vulnerability increased (odds ratio: 0.98, 95% confidence interval: 0.97-0.99). Risk-adjusted probability of postoperative complications increased with social vulnerability index; however, among patients with high social vulnerability, risk of postoperative complications was lower at high-volume hospitals compared with low-volume hospitals. In contrast, there was no difference in postoperative complications between hospitals with and without Magnet recognition across social vulnerability index. Patients residing in communities characterized by a high social vulnerability index were less likely to undergo high-risk cancer surgery at a high-volume hospital. Although postoperative complications and mortality increased as social vulnerability index increased, some of the risk appeared to be mitigated by having surgery at a high-volume hospital. These data highlight the importance of access to high-quality surgical care, especially among patients who may already be more vulnerable.

In search of open minds and shared consent - Information, treatment options and postoperative care from the patient's perspective 

Data sources The systematic review has used various databases (EMBASE, Medline, ScienceDirect, Google Scholar), as well as hand searching, to collect its data sample. There is no mention of the authors' affiliations or any funding declaration. In addition, there is no mention of an information specialist/search strategist in the team. There is mention of two review authors who have been blinded to the authors of the studies, and their publication years, but there is no mention as to whether they could concur among themselves. In addition, they have mentioned a third expert when needed, but do not mention when or in what circumstance they were needed, as well as their credentials. This has the potential to introduce bias.Study selection The abstract analyses 31 studies, of which 20 met the quality assurance criteria. The papers searched for were those in both Spanish and English, which may potentially increase the number of relevant studies that contribute to data synthesis. The original searches identified 3,104 articles, yet the search strategy has not been adequately detailed by the authors; only a basic description of the type of phrases which were entered into the databases is provided. Table 1 clearly displays the databases and sources for the data collection, but it does not show how many papers were utilised from each database and there is no detail as to whether the search strategy was amended to align with the requirements of each database. A detailed strategy would be essential for transparency and reproducibility, and is a significant omission to the review. The authors have also observed that the literature search was performed in 2017 and the paper was published in 2018. However, the search strategies are only up until 2016, and due to this, there is potentially missing data from 2016-2018. In this missing data, one of the most important factors is the new international guidelines on periodontal disease diagnosis, which would have been instrumental in defining what the author describes as 'periodontitis'.Data extraction and synthesis This study excluded papers that used ambiguous definitions for periodontitis, but fails to define what 'ambiguous' means and what the criteria or diagnostic process were. In addition, the PRISMA diagram excludes studies that are 'short', with no mention of how this has been determined or justification for this exclusion. In addition, in the diagram, there is an incomplete sentence: 'Did not include a description of the...' - the description is incomplete and it is unclear what the authors were eluding to.Results Positive association does not equal causation and this is poorly defined. The results display an odds ratio of 2.01, 95% CI 1.81-2.36, which, if the methods were reproducible, would be a very statistically significant result.Conclusion Women with chronic periodontitis who are expecting children are at a twofold increase in the risk of their baby being born prematurely. Assessment of periodontal diseases in expectant mothers is not defined by professional consensus.

Two oral hypomethylating agents, oral azacitidine (CC-486) and decitabine/cedazuridine (ASTX727), have recently entered the clinical domain. CC-486 has been shown to improve overall survival as maintenance therapy for older patients with acute myeloid leukemia in complete remission, whereas the combination of decitabine with cedazuridine, a cytidine deaminase inhibitor, is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with myelodysplastic syndromes and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia with intermediate-1, or higher, International Prognostic Scoring System risk. This article briefly summarizes the clinical development of both drugs, the pivotal studies that led to their approval and some of the issues faced in extending the use of these drugs to other indications.

Free maternal healthcare financing schemes play an essential role in the quality of services rendered to clients during antenatal care in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). However, healthcare managers' and providers' perceptions of the healthcare financing scheme may influence the quality of care. This scoping review mapped evidence on managers' and providers' perspectives of free maternal healthcare and the quality of care in SSA. We used Askey and O'Malley's framework as a guide to conduct this review. To address the research question, we searched PubMed, CINAHL through EBSCOhost, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, and Google Scholar with no date limitation to May 2019 using keywords, Boolean terms, and Medical Subject Heading terms to retrieve relevant articles. Both abstract and full articles screening were conducted independently by two reviewers using the inclusion and exclusion criteria as a guide. All significant data were extracted, organized into themes, and a summary of the findings reported narratively. In all, 15 out of 390 articles met the inclusion criteria. These 15 studies were conducted in nine countries. That is, Ghana (4), Kenya (3), and Nigeria (2), Burkina Faso (1), Burundi (1), Niger (1), Sierra Leone (1), Tanzania (1), and Uganda (1). Of the 15 included studies, 14 reported poor quality of maternal healthcare from managers' and providers' perspectives. Factors contributing to the perception of poor maternal healthcare included: late reimbursement of funds, heavy workload of providers, lack of essential drugs and stock-out of medical supplies, lack of policy definition, out-of-pocket payment, and inequitable distribution of staff. This study established evidence of existing literature on the quality of care based on healthcare providers' and managers' perspectives though very limited. This study indicates healthcare providers and managers perceive the quality of maternal healthcare under the free financing policy as poor. Nonetheless, the free maternal care policy is very much needed towards achieving universal health, and all efforts to sustain and improve the quality of care under it must be encouraged. Therefore, more research is needed to better understand the impact of their perceived poor quality of care on maternal health outcomes.

Alcohol addiction is manifested by periods of abstinence and relapse in which the individual returns to previous problematic alcohol use. This may lead to unstable and stressful routines for the family and for women who live with a spouse diagnosed with an AUD. AUD may mentally and physically affect women living with a spouse diagnosed with AUD with respect to relapse. However, most studies have focused on the influence of AUD in general, and the way they cope with it; few have dealt with the experience of relapse as a distinctive stage. Women's experiences of their spouses' relapses are embedded within their broader life experience in the shadow of alcohol addiction. The pattern of transitions from closeness to distance in the ways women think, feel and actively respond to their spouses' relapses shows similarities with the ways in which individuals cope with repeated trauma. This helps relate these women's experiences of their spouses' repeated relapses to the potential complex trauma these women experience and leads to a better understanding of the internal emotional dynamics of these women's behavioural patterns. These women need a therapeutic solution that can help them cope with longstanding emotional burdens. Therapists should be sensitive to the complexity of their experience. When relevant, therapy should be based on therapeutic strategies from trauma practice, along with Alcohol Behavioural Couples Therapy that can reinforce the couple's mutual efforts to achieve sobriety or reduce AUD severity ABSTRACT: Introduction Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is manifested by periods of remission and relapse which can serve as a source of continuous stressors on the individuals and family. Women living with a spouse diagnosed with AUD can be mentally and physically affected by this behaviour. Most studies have focused on the general influence of AUD on these women and their attempts to cope with AUD; there are scant data on the influences of relapse as a distinctive stage. Aim To better understand how women whose spouses are diagnosed with AUD experience their relapses. Method A qualitative-naturalistic approach was implemented. Semi-structured, in-depth interviews were conducted with 12 women whose spouses were diagnosed with AUD. Results Content analysis revealed three main categories representing the transitions from: a) ignorance to realization, b) emotional opposition to acceptance and c) activity to inactivity. Each category reflects one cognitive, emotional or behavioural dimension of this experience. The overarching theme emerged as shifts from closeness to distance in the way these women think, feel and actively respond to their spouse's relapses and addiction. Discussion The shift from closeness to distance as manifested by the three transitions is argued to reflect the ways these women experience and cope with the chronic nature of AUD. It is suggested that this experience parallels the phenomenology of symptoms of complex trauma. Implications for practice Nurses should be alert to the potential accumulative stressors experienced by these women and implement intervention strategies developed in the trauma field in addition to Alcohol Behavioural Couples Therapy.

We have summarized the abstract section as follows: "We report a son and his father aﬀected by Attention Deﬁcit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). They belonged to a larger cohort (116 ADHD children, 20 related parents, 77 controls) wholly genotyped for

Tweetable abstract Health economics and ELSI can be better integrated to consider the family impacts of genetic and genomic testing.

Medicinal plants present activities against neurodegenerative diseases with potential for the pharmaceutical industries. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the current panorama of patents and articles of Brazilian medicinal plants with pharmacological activities in the Central Nervous System (CNS), regarding such aspects as the number of patents by countries, areas of knowledge, and technological maturity. We carry out a technological exploration on the Questel Orbit® platform with the descriptors: Agave sisalana P., Amburana cearenses A., Dimorphandra mollis B., Jatropha curcas L., Poincianella pyramidalis T. and Prosopis juliflora (Sw.) DC. with pharmacological activity and scientific exploration in PubMed and Science Direct associated with the CNS in the title, abstract, and methodology. A total of 642 patents were identified between the years 1999-2019. India, China, and Brazil are highlighted, 6th place, out of a total of 48 countries. Of these, 30 patents were not in the National Institute of Industrial Property, and 10% are Brazilian in biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. Eleven articles were used in PubMed and Science Direct with scientific domains (anticancer, neuroprotection and anti-inflammatory). The Federal University of Bahia is highlighted, showing Technology Readiness Levels (TRL4), basic skills of pre-clinical research. Brazilian public universities have a significant role in the scientific, technological and innovative development of therapeutic assets for CNS.

Conservation activities and natural resource management interventions have often aimed to tackle the dual challenge of improving nature conservation and human well-being. However, there is concern over the extent to which this dual goal has been achieved, and an increasing recognition of trade-offs and synergies within and between aspects of each of the goals. The amount and scope of the available evidence on the success of conservation and management interventions in both arenas has lacked documentation, for a number of reasons, including limited resources for monitoring and evaluation and the difficulty in bringing together a disparate evidence base. This systematic map focuses on the interaction between marine conservation management and the health and well-being of coastal communities in South East Asia. We searched bibliographic databases to find published literature, and identified grey literature through institutional and organisational website searches and key stakeholders. Eligibility criteria were applied in two stages, title and abstract and full text, with consistency checks. We extracted meta-data on the design and characteristics of each study, from which we produced an interactive database and map, and a narrative summary. We assessed 42,894 records at title and abstract from the main searches. 1,331 articles were assessed at full text (30 articles were not retrievable). 287 articles (281 studies) were included in the systematic map. Most studies were peer-reviewed publications (90%), and from the Philippines and Indonesia (72%). 31% of studies were solely qualitative, 45% were solely quantitative and 24% included both qualitative and quantitative research. Only 24% (31/127) of quantitative studies included a comparator. We identified knowledge clusters where studies investigated the links between the marine conservation interventions: Site Protection, Economic or Livelihood Incentives or Alternatives, or Habitat Management, and the human health and well-being outcomes: Economic Living Standards, Governance and Empowerment, or Social Relations. In addition, qualitative research clusters were identified exploring the links between the intervention Habitat Management, and the outcome Governance and Empowerment, and between the intervention Economic or Livelihood Incentives or Alternatives, and the outcomes of Governance and Empowerment, and Social Relations. We identified major knowledge gaps in evidence for the effect of marine conservation interventions on the outcomes Freedom of Choice and Action, Security and Safety, Subjective Well-being, Health, and Culture and Spirituality. There was a lack of studies involving Education, Awareness and Activism interventions that reported any human health and well-being outcomes. We present the first updatable, interrogable and comprehensive evidence map on this topic for South East Asia. Our work supports further, detailed investigation of knowledge clusters using systematic review and also serves to identify understudied topic areas. The lack of comparative, quantitative studies suggests that future research should include counterfactuals to strengthen the robustness of evidence base. Users of this systematic map should recognise that much evidence may be national or locally specific, and that we did not undertake an assessment of study quality. Thus, when considering implications for policy and decision-making, users should carefully consider the heterogeneity of available evidence and refer to original research articles to gain a full depth of understanding and context.

Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) are clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorders. Complex disease biology has posed significant challenge to the development of novel therapeutics. Despite myriad clinical trials, none have been superior to azacitidine and decitabine (DEC) therapy. These therapies present a substantial burden for patients with 5 and 7 days of parenteral treatment in an infusion clinic. To overcome this limitation, a fixed drug combination of oral DEC-cedazuridine (C-DEC), a cytidine deaminase inhibitor with documented safety profile was developed. This drug was recently approved by the US FDA, Australian TGA and Health Canada for newly diagnosed or previously treated intermediate or high risk by international prognostic scoring system, MDS and CMML. In this review, we detail the pharmacokinetic and clinical activity of C-DEC in the management of MDS and CMML.

Cultural immersion as a learning activity provides students with the opportunity to experience diversity and develop cultural safety. Both, 'Study Abroad Programs' and 'Internationalisation at Home' (IaH) aim to provide a cultural immersion experience for students. However, explicit learning objectives are essential for quality pedagogy and for students to develop cultural safety from their learning experience. To identify the learning objectives of study abroad and Internationalisation at Home (IaH) programs in higher education health profession programs. A scoping review was undertaken according to recommendations by the Joanna Briggs Institute (Peters et al., 2020) and PRISMA guidelines. The electronic databases CINAHL, MEDLINE, PsychINFO and PubMed and were searched in November 2019 and updated September 2020. The search was limited to qualitative studies, text and opinion pieces, English language, published between 2015 and 2019. Inclusion criteria using the participants, concept, and context (PCC framework) was utilised and search terms such as study abroad and Internationalisation at Home were combined with learning objectives to identify articles. The articles were screened for eligibility by title, abstract, and full text review by two independent reviewers. A data extraction tool was utilised to extract and synthesise data into categories that represent the core learning objectives of cultural immersion programs reviewed. Fourteen of the 66 initially identified studies were included in this scoping review. Qualitative synthesis yielded five broad categories of learning objectives used in cultural immersion programs: cultural competence, internationalisation, pedagogy, collegiality, and personal growth. A minimum set of essential learning outcomes was derived from this review that will be of interest to developers and implementers of cultural immersion programs.

Despite technological advances and specialist training of neonatal teams, perinatal deaths still occur. Such events are traumatic experiences for the parents and increase the risk of pathological grieving. Nursing is one of the main sources of support. However, the important work of nurses in these situations is made more difficult by the lack of recognized strategies that can be implemented to assist parents and family members in the bereavement process. Identify nursing interventions to help parents of neonates admitted to neonatal intensive care units cope with perinatal loss. A scoping review based on the methodological framework established by Arksey and O'Malley was used. A total of 327 relevant studies were identified through a bibliographic search in Pubmed, CINAHL Plus, APA PsycNET and Scopus between 2000 and 2019. The screening process included an initial analysis of the relevance of the abstract and, when required, an extensive review of the full paper. A total of 9 papers were finally selected which responded to the research question. All nine papers are from the USA and have different methodological characteristics. A number of effective interventions were identified, including legacy creation, support groups, family-centred accompaniment and follow-up, parental involvement in pre-mortem care, intergenerational bereavement programmes, and the use of technological and spiritual resources. In general, the scant evidence that is available about nursing interventions around perinatal bereavement care underlines the requirement to thoroughly assess the effectiveness of those that have already been designed and implemented. This scoping review contributes to the potential implementation of effective interventions to deal with and help parents and family members cope with perinatal bereavement, with nursing staff as the main source of support and leading interventions which have family members in the care team. This review also makes a substantial contribution to the development of a practical and evidence-based clinical guide for nursing, with recommendations that can be adapted to effective quality care criteria. It is additionally intended to encourage visibility in health policies of care and attention to perinatal grief in neonatal intensive care units.

Advances in genomics research have led to the development of polygenic risk scores, which numerically summarize genetic predispositions for a wide array of human outcomes. Initially developed to characterize disease risk, polygenic risk scores can now be calculated for many non-disease traits and social outcomes, with the potential to be used not only in health care but also other institutional domains. In this study, we draw on a nationally-representative survey of U.S. adults to examine three sets of lay attitudes toward the deployment of genetic risk scores in a variety of medical and non-medical domains: 1. abstract belief about whether people should be judged on the basis of genetic predispositions; 2. concrete attitudes about whether various institutions should be permitted to use genetic information; and 3. personal willingness to provide genetic information to various institutions. Results demonstrate two striking differences across these three sets of attitudes. First, despite almost universal agreement that people should not be judged based on genetics, there is support, albeit varied, for institutions being permitted to use genetic information, with support highest for disease outcomes and in reproductive decision-making. We further find significant variation in personal willingness to provide such information, with a majority of respondents expressing willingness to provide information to health care providers and relative finder services, but less than a quarter expressing willingness to do so for an array of other institutions and services. Second, while there are no demographic differences in respondents' abstract beliefs about judging based on genetics, demographic differences emerge in permissibility ratings and personal willingness. Our results should inform debates about the deployment of polygenic scores in domains within and beyond medicine.

To document pregnancy outcome in homozygous sickle cell (SS) disease and in age-matched controls with a normal haemoglobin genotype followed from birth for up to 45 years. A total of 100 000 consecutive non-operative deliveries screened for sickle cell disease at the main Government maternity hospital in Kingston, Jamaica between 1973 and 1981 detected 311 (149 female) babies with SS disease who were matched by age and gender with 250 (129 female) controls with an AA haemoglobin phenotype. These individuals have been followed from birth with prospective assessment of menarche and detailed documentation of all pregnancies. There were 177 pregnancies in 71 SS patients and 226 pregnancies in 74 AA controls. Mothers with SS disease had more spontaneous abortions (adjusted relative risk [aRR] 3.2, 95% CI 1.6-6.1), fewer live births (aRR 0.7, 95% CI 0.6-0.9) and their offspring were more likely to have a gestational age <37 weeks (aRR 2.1, 95% CI 1.1-3.7) and low birthweight <2.5 kg (aRR 3.0, 95% CI 1.6-5.3). They were more prone to acute chest syndrome (aRR 13.7, 95% CI 4.1-45.5), urinary tract infection (aRR 12.8, 95% CI 1.3-125.9), pre-eclampsia/eclampsia (aRR 3.1, 95% CI 1.1-8.8), retained placenta (aRR 10.1, 95% CI 1.1-90.3), sepsis (Fisher's Exact test 0.04) and pregnancy-related deaths (Fisher's Exact test 0.02). Four of five deaths were attributable to acute chest syndrome. There was no genotypic difference in pregnancy-induced hypertension or postpartum haemorrhage. Pregnancy in SS disease carries risks for both mother and child. The variable characteristics of pregnancy-related deaths complicate their prevention. Pregnancy in SS disease compared with controls showed increased abortions and stillbirths, fewer live births and maternal deaths in 7% patients.

Using abstract concepts is a hallmark of human cognition. While multiple kinds of abstract concepts exist, they so far have been conceived as a unitary kind in opposition to concrete ones. Here, we focus on Institutional concepts, like justice or norm, investigating their fine-grained differences with respect to other kinds of abstract and concrete concepts, and exploring whether their representation varies according to individual proficiency. Specifically, we asked experts and non-experts in the legal field to evaluate four kinds of concepts (i.e., institutional, theoretical, food, artefact) on 16 dimensions: abstractness-concreteness; imageability; contextual availability; familiarity; age of acquisition; modality of acquisition; social valence; social metacognition; arousal; valence; interoception; metacognition; perceptual modality strength; body-object interaction; mouth and hand involvement. Results showed that Institutional concepts rely more than other categories on linguistic/social and inner experiences and are primarily characterized by positive valence. In addition, a more subtle characterization of the institutional domain emerged: Pure-institutional concepts (e.g., parliament) were perceived as more similar to technical tools, while Meta-institutional concepts (e.g., validity) were characterized mainly by abstract components. Importantly, for what concerns individual proficiency, we found that the level of expertise affects conceptual representation. Only law-experts associated Institutional concepts with exteroceptive and emotional experiences, showing also a more grounded and situated representation of the two types of institutional concepts. Overall, our finding highlights the richness and flexibility of abstract concepts and suggests that they differ in the degree of embodiment and grounding. Implications of the results for current theories of conceptual representation and social institutions are discussed.

The aim of this study was to identify interventions targeting children and their caregivers to reduce psychosocial problems in the course of the COVID-19 pandemic and comparable outbreaks. The review was performed using systematic literature searches in MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and COVID-19-specific databases, including the CDC COVID-19 Research Database, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Global Database on COVID-19 Research and the Cochrane COVID-19 Study Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the EU Clinical Trials Register and the German Clinical Trials Register (DRKS) up to 25th September 2020. The search yielded 6657 unique citations. After title/abstract and full text screening, 11 study protocols reporting on trials planned in China, the US, Canada, the UK, and Hungary during the COVID-19 pandemic were included. Four interventions targeted children ≥10 years directly, seven system-based interventions targeted the parents and caregivers of younger children and adolescents. Outcome measures encompassed mainly anxiety and depressive symptoms, different dimensions of stress or psychosocial well-being, and quality of supportive relationships. In conclusion, this systematic review revealed a paucity of studies on psychosocial interventions for children during the COVID-19 pandemic. Further research should be encouraged in light of the expected demand for child mental health management.

Waiting lists are an ongoing issue for publicly funded community and hospital-based health services. Parents and caregivers are instrumental supports in the health and well-being of young and school-aged children, yet little is known about the way they can be supported during waiting periods. Given mounting evidence about the value of early intervention in physical and mental health literature, and waits for some public health services extending past 12 months, it is both timely and warranted to explore interim interventions that may be applied in this period. Intervention studies that have applied an educational programme, information, group-based support or individualised therapy to primary caregivers of children (heron referred to as parent-directed interventions), waiting for diagnostic assessment at any inpatient or outpatient health service and aged between 1 and 12 years of age, will be reviewed. These will include intervention studies of any type that have included more than 5 participants or participant groups and where a control or comparison group has been included. Abstract screening, full-text review, data extraction and risk of bias will be conducted by two reviewers. Relevant databases in health and education will be systematically searched using key words and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) and grey literature will be explored. Databases will include PubMed, Ovid for MEDLINE and PsycINFO, EBSCO for the Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), and the Education Resources Information Center (ERIC). Covidence© will be used to support abstract and full text screening, which will be completed by two main reviewers. Results will be tabulated, summarised and meta-analysed using a random-effects model, in any instance where concordant outcome measures have been applied. Results will be published and reported in line with PRISMA reporting guidelines. Given little is known about effective support for families when children are awaiting diagnostic assessment for any medical, developmental or behavioural condition, the authors will synthesise existing evidence about parent-directed interventions in this period. It is hoped that by understanding the existing evidence interventions that are proven to be effective will be adopted and intervention innovation can occur. PROSPERO 2020 CRD42020159360.

To identify risk factors for early- and late-onset postpartum depression (PPD) among a wide range of variables, including sociodemographic characteristics, childhood trauma, stressful life events during pregnancy and history of personal and family psychiatric disorders, and to assess the contribution of each risk factor. Nested case-control study in a prospective longitudinal cohort study. Eight maternity departments in the Paris metropolitan area, France. A cohort of 3310 women with deliveries between November 2011 and June 2016. Cases were women with early- or late-onset PPD. Controls were women without depression during pregnancy or the postpartum period. Logistic regression adjusted on sociodemographic variables was performed for each outcome and a multivariable model was proposed based on a stepwise selection procedure. Early- and late-onset PPD assessed at 2 months and 1 year postpartum, respectively. Stressful life events during pregnancy have a dose-response relationship with both early- and late-onset PPD. Early- and late-onset PPD presented distinct patterns of determinants. These results have important consequences in terms of prevention and specific care. Early- and late-onset postpartum depression are associated with stressful life events and psychiatric history.

Racial minorities will account for >50% of the United States population by 2045, yet race and ethnicity persist as leading predictors of morbidity. Although minorities achieve better outcomes when treated by racially concordant providers, the number of minority physicians is disproportionately low compared with the rapidly growing minority population. This imbalance creates a cultural gap between many minority patients and their healthcare providers. Research suggests that educational initiatives addressing health inequity through a historical lens can help providers better understand the root causes of disparities; however, extensive clinical demands severely limit the time providers can dedicate to non-medical learning. To address this gap, the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Hospital System developed and piloted a short film about the history of Black people in South Florida, highlighting significant events that shaped the health-seeking behaviors of this population. A 20-minute documentary exploring the sociocultural history of Black communities in Miami-Dade County was presented to 188 first-year postgraduate residents in June 2017. Residents completed pre-post surveys to measure changes in knowledge and care delivery intentions. Analyses performed between March and July 2018 revealed moderate improvements in the knowledge and awareness of the socioeconomic history of Miami's Black communities. Before watching the video, a majority indicated that increasing awareness of the sociocultural history of their patient population was a valuable learning activity. These findings suggest that brief videos focused on the history of culturally distinct populations may be a successful pedagogical strategy to introduce physicians to the communities they serve and improve provider knowledge.

The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has dotted the i's and crossed the t's in the context of academic medical research. One year into GDPR, it is clear that a change of mind and the uptake of new procedures is required. Research organisations have been looking at the possibility to establish a code-of-conduct, good practices and/or guidelines for researchers that translate GDPR's abstract principles to concrete measures suitable for implementation. We introduce a proposal for the implementation of GDPR in the context of academic research which involves the processing of health related data, as developed by a multidisciplinary team at the University Hospitals Leuven. The proposal is based on three elements, three stages and six specific safeguards. Transparency and pseudonymisation are considered key to find a balance between the need for researchers to collect and analyse personal data and the increasing wish of data subjects for informational control.

Providing understandable information to patients is necessary to achieve the aims of the Informed Consent process: respecting and promoting patients' autonomy and protecting patients from harm. In recent decades, new, primarily digital technologies have been used to apply and test innovative formats of Informed Consent. We conducted a systematic review to explore the impact of using digital tools for Informed Consent in both clinical research and in clinical practice. Understanding, satisfaction and participation were compared for digital tools versus the non-digital Informed Consent process. We searched for studies on available electronic databases, including Pubmed, EMBASE, and Cochrane. Studies were identified using specific Mesh-terms/keywords. We included studies, published from January 2012 to October 2020, that focused on the use of digital Informed Consent tools for clinical research, or clinical procedures. Digital interventions were defined as interventions that used multimedia or audio-video to provide information to patients. We classified the interventions into 3 different categories: video only, non-interactive multimedia, and interactive multimedia. Our search yielded 19,579 publications. After title and abstract screening 100 studies were retained for full-text analysis, of which 73 publications were included. Studies examined interactive multimedia (29/73), non-interactive multimedia (13/73), and videos (31/73), and most (34/38) studies were conducted on adults. Innovations in consent were tested for clinical/surgical procedures (26/38) and clinical research (12/38). For research IC, 21 outcomes were explored, with a positive effect on at least one of the studied outcomes being observed in 8/12 studies. For clinical/surgical procedures 49 outcomes were explored, and 21/26 studies reported a positive effect on at least one of the studied outcomes. Digital technologies for informed consent were not found to negatively affect any of the outcomes, and overall, multimedia tools seem desirable. Multimedia tools indicated a higher impact than videos only. Presence of a researcher may potentially enhance efficacy of different outcomes in research IC processes. Studies were heterogeneous in design, making evaluation of impact challenging. Robust study design including standardization is needed to conclusively assess impact.

Pre-eclampsia is a pregnancy-associated condition with complex disease mechanisms and a risk factor for various long-term health outcomes for the mother and infant. To summarise evidence on the association of pre-eclampsia with long-term health outcomes arising in women and/or infants. PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus and ISI Web of Science were searched from inception to July 2020. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses examining associations between pre-eclampsia and long-term health outcomes in women and their infants. Data were extracted by two independent reviewers. We re-estimated the summary effect size by random-effects and fixed-effects models, the 95% confidence interval, the 95% prediction interval, the between-study heterogeneity, any evidence of small-study effects and excess significance bias. Twenty-one articles were included (90 associations). Seventy-nine associations had nominally statistically significant findings (P < 0.05). Sixty-five associations had large or very large heterogeneity. Evidence for small-study effects and excess significance bias was found in seven and two associations, respectively. Nine associations: cerebrovascular disease (cohort studies), cerebrovascular disease (overall), cardiac disease (cohort studies), dyslipidaemia (all studies), risk of death (late-onset pre-eclampsia), fatal and non-fatal ischaemic heart disease, cardiovascular mortality (cohort studies), any diabetes or use of diabetic medication (unadjusted), and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (adjusted) were supported with robust evidence. Many of the meta-analyses in this research field have caveats casting doubts on their validity. Current evidence suggests an increased risk for women to develop cardiovascular-related diseases, diabetes and dyslipidaemia after pre-eclampsia, while offspring exposed to pre-eclampsia are at higher risk for ADHD. Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases were supported with convincing evidence for long-term health outcomes after pre-eclampsia.

Spirituality is recognised as a fundamental aspect of health and nursing care. Yet, there are few studies exploring how this concept may be understood outside of Western culture. This scoping review seeks to address this omission by focusing specifically on research conducted with Chinese populations. This is important because people from Chinese backgrounds (PBC) are now residing all over the world, and their spirituality and spiritual needs should be considered when providing healthcare. Adopting a purely generalist understanding and application of spirituality may not capture the cultural difference that exists between the East and West. This scoping review adopted Arksey and O'Malley's method to focus on spirituality and spiritual care among PBC in health and nursing. The systematic strategy was adopted and used to search the main databases in health and nursing. Eighteen (n = 18) empirical studies were included in the review: 11 qualitative studies and seven quantitative involving 1870 participants. The scoping review revealed that in the Chinese understanding of spirituality is an abstract and personal concept which can refer to an internal vital force, experiences of suffering, and traditional Chinese cultural and religious values. As the multidimensional understanding of spirituality and spiritual care may cause confusion, these findings may provide a direction for the researchers emphasising the need for cultural and religious sensitivity when understanding of spirituality.

The oral microbiota is acquired very early, but the factors shaping its acquisition are not well understood. Previous studies comparing monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) twins have suggested that host genetics plays a role. However, all twins share an equal portion of their parent's genome, so this model is not informative for studying parent-to-child transmission. We used a novel study design that allowed us to directly examine the genetics of transmission by comparing the oral microbiota of biological versus adoptive mother-child dyads. No difference was observed in how closely oral bacterial community profiles matched for adoptive versus biological mother-child pairs, indicating little if any effect of host genetics on the fidelity of transmission. Both adopted and biologic children more closely resembled their own mother as compared to unrelated women, supporting the role of contact and environment. Mother-child strain similarity increased with the age of the child, ruling out early effects of host genetic influence that are lost over time. No effect on the fidelity of mother-child strain sharing from vaginal birth or breast feeding was seen. Analysis of extended families showed that fathers and mothers were equally similar to their children, and that cohabitating couples showed even greater strain similarity than mother-child pairs. These findings support the role of contact and shared environment, and age, but not genetics, as determinants of microbial transmission, and were consistent at both species and strain level resolutions, and across multiple oral habitats. In addition, analysis of individual species all showed similar results. The host is clearly active in shaping the composition of the oral microbiome, since only a few of the many bacterial species in the larger environment are capable of colonizing the human oral cavity. Our findings suggest that these host mechanisms are universally shared among humans, since no effect of genetic relatedness on fidelity of microbial transmission could be detected. Instead our findings point towards contact and shared environment being the driving factors of microbial transmission, with a unique combination of these factors ultimately shaping the highly personalized human oral microbiome. Video abstract.

Purpose This mixed-methods study aimed to examine the conversation techniques used by parents of young children with hearing loss (HL) during dinnertime at home. Parents' usage rates of open- and closed-ended language elicitation, reformulation, imitation, directives, and explicit vocabulary instruction were examined in relation to children's receptive vocabulary and basic-concepts skills. Method Twenty-minute dinnertime segments were extracted from naturalistic, daylong recordings of 37 preschoolers with HL who used listening and spoken language. The segments were hand-coded for parents' use of conversation techniques. Children's receptive vocabulary and basic concepts were assessed using standardized measures. Results Parents' use of conversation techniques varied widely, with closed-ended elicitation and directives used most frequently during dinner. Explicit vocabulary instruction was correlated with general receptive vocabulary and basic-concepts skills. Thematic analysis of the conversations revealed common themes, including concrete topics and sibling speakers. In addition, parents who used many techniques often introduced abstract conversation topics; electronic media was present in all conversations with few techniques. Conclusions Parents of preschoolers with HL may benefit from specific coaching to elicit language and introduce new vocabulary during home routines. These techniques may help develop their children's receptive language.

Physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) absorption modeling and simulation is increasingly used as a tool in drug product development, not only in support of clinical pharmacology applications (e.g., drug-drug interaction, dose selection) but also from quality perspective, enhancing drug product understanding. This report provides a summary of the status and the application of PBPK absorption modeling and simulation in new drug application (NDA) submissions to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to support drug product quality (e.g., clinically relevant dissolution specifications, active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particle size distribution specifications). During the 10 years from 2008 to 2018, a total of 24 NDA submissions included the use of PBPK absorption modeling and simulations for biopharmaceutics-related assessment. In these submissions, PBPK absorption modeling and simulation served as an impactful tool in establishing the relationship of critical quality attributes (CQAs) including formulation variables, specifically in vitro dissolution, to the in vivo performance. This article also summarizes common practices in PBPK approaches and proposes future directions for the use of PBPK absorption modeling and simulation in drug product quality assessment.Graphical abstract.

In six weeks the world has changed: COVID-19 - Family-centered care in the intensive care unit  To describe the experience of relatives during the COVID-19 pandemic and to derive support information for health professionals. Qualitative analysis of three written testimonies of relatives whose family members were hospitalized with COVID-19 or other disease at intensive care unit. Relatives report the sudden, unexpected occurrence of the disease. "It was there, out of nowhere, hits the heart of life, doesn't just go away, does what it wants. It is an unknown virus that we have to get to know very closely." The ban on visiting was harsh, it made her faint. The first visit was an indescribable joy. Knowing how the family member was and that the health care professionals were taking professional and empathetic care of the sick person were the only things the relatives could hold on to. Relatives were reassured when they experienced a high level of commitment on the part of health professionals and received repeated comprehensible information by phone. Limitations and transfer: Restrictions on visits depend on national legislation. Measures such as video calls can also be useful outside of a pandemic to build relationships with relatives.

In the last few decades, research and clinical care have attempted to identify and meet the palliative care needs, concerns and challenges of patients of all ages with neurologic disease, under the newly defined subspecialty of neuropalliative care. However, the role of nurses in care organization and provision, as well as nursing priorities with regards to the needs and concerns of patients and families, have not been well articulated. The purpose of this review is to outline priorities in neuropalliative care nursing and examine what questions have been investigated to date. The integrative review approach was used to produce an analysis of existing nursing literature on neuropalliative care. As the broadest of research review methods, integrative review includes experimental and non-experimental research, as well as theoretical work, allowing us to engage with concepts and evidence from multiple perspectives. Six themes of concern for nursing care and research were identified: (1) managing a heavy symptom burden, (2) unmet care needs, (3) the need for care pathways and protocols, (4) caregiver burden, (5) poor recognition of the dying, and (6) the impact of communication and cognition changes. An analysis and critique of the literature yielded the following recommendations for clinical and research priorities: (1) a paradigm shift in how neurologic disorders is perceived and managed, (2) redefining the scope of neuropalliative care and services, (3) understanding and addressing the needs of family members and caregivers and including them in assessments, care planning and provision; (4) having the difficult conversations and asking the right questions. Nurses and nursing studies pay attention to things that matter to patients and their families. As the health professionals who spend the most time with patients and families at the bedside and in the community, nurses are well placed to build strong relationships, recognize needs and concerns, and recommend strategies and interventions to enhance comfort and alleviate suffering. In neuropalliative care nursing, this relational engagement becomes critical since patients experience changes to their cognition and communication as a result of disease progression. To enhance patient agency during a vulnerable time, methodologies to include patients who think and communicate differently in clinical care and research are urgently needed. Tweetable abstract: Neuropalliative nursing researchers call for better prognostication, recognition of the dying process, including patients in care decisions.

Gender-based violence (GBV) is a significant violation of human rights, requiring specific understanding of how individuals heal and recover after these experiences. This article reports on findings of a qualitative metasynthesis that examined the nature of healing after GBV through the perspectives of female-identifying survivors. Empirical studies were identified by a search of peer-reviewed articles via electronic databases. Studies were included for review if they were available in the English language, reported on qualitative studies that directly engaged female-identifying survivors of GBV, and were aiming to understand the GBV healing journey, process, or goals. After our initial search, 1,107 articles were reviewed by title and abstract and 47 articles were reviewed for full text. Twenty-six peer-reviewed articles were included for the review and were analyzed using meta-ethnography. Key findings included the recovery journey as a nonlinear, iterative experience that requires active engagement and patience. Healing was composed of (1) trauma processing and reexamination, (2) managing negative states, (3) rebuilding the self, (4) connecting with others, and (5) regaining hope and power. "Shifts" or "turning points" are also mentioned which catalyzed healing prioritization. This article aggregates and examines the scientific literature to date on GBV healing and provides articulation of the limitations, gaps in evidence, and areas for intervention. The article considers implications for future research, policy, and practice and, in particular, focuses our attention on the need to expand our knowledge of alternative recovery pathways and mechanisms for healing.

The scale-up of evidence-based innovations is required to reduce waste and inequities in health and social services (HSS). However, it often tends to be a top-down process initiated by policy makers, and the values of the intended beneficiaries are forgotten. Involving multiple stakeholders including patients and the public in the scaling-up process is thus essential but highly complex. We propose to identify relevant strategies for meaningfully and equitably involving patients and the public in the science and practice of scaling up in HSS. We will adapt our overall method from the RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method. Following this, we will perform a two-prong study design (knowledge synthesis and Delphi study) grounded in an integrated knowledge translation approach. This approach involves extensive participation of a network of stakeholders interested in patient and public involvement (PPI) in scaling up and a multidisciplinary steering committee. We will conduct a systematic scoping review following the methodology recommended in the Joanna Briggs Institute Reviewers Manual. We will use the following eligibility criteria: (1) participants-any stakeholder involved in creating or testing a strategy for PPI; (2) intervention-any PPI strategy proposed for scaling-up initiatives; (3) comparator-no restriction; (4) outcomes: any process or outcome metrics related to PPI; and (5) setting-HSS. We will search electronic databases (e.g., Medline, Web of Science, Sociological Abstract) from inception onwards, hand search relevant websites, screen the reference lists of included records, and consult experts in the field. Two reviewers will independently select and extract eligible studies. We will summarize data quantitatively and qualitatively and report results using the PRISMA extension for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) checklist. We will conduct an online Delphi survey to achieve consensus on the relevant strategies for PPI in scaling-up initiatives in HSS. Participants will include stakeholders from low-, middle-, and high-income countries. We anticipate that three rounds will allow an acceptable degree of agreement on research priorities. Our findings will advance understanding of how to meaningfully and equitably involve patients and the public in scaling-up initiatives for sustainable HSS. We registered this protocol with the Open Science Framework on August 19, 2020 ( https://osf.io/zqpx7/ ).

The meaning in life consists of an individual's values, experiences, goals and beliefs. It has been shown to be negatively associated with depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. Depression and hopelessness are related to increased suicidal ideation. Meaning in life has been shown to be a protective factor against depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. A path model was developed to clarify the associations among meaning in life, depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. For clarity, the outcomes were depression and suicidal ideation, the independent variable was hopelessness, and the mediator was meaning in life. Hopelessness had a direct association with meaning in life, and meaning in life had a direct association with depression, supporting the mediating effect of meaning in life from hopelessness to depression. Meaning in life had the strongest association with depression, and depression had the strongest association with suicidal ideation. Meaning in life did not have a significant direct association with suicidal ideation; it did have an indirect association with suicidal ideation through depression. This study estimated that one-point increase in meaning in life score was associated with 0.47-point decrease in depression score and 0.13-point decrease in suicidal ideation score, respectively. Logotherapy is a meaning-centred therapy to find meaning in life. This study reveals that increased levels of meaning in life are associated with decreasing degrees of depression. Mental health nurses could help patients to find meaning in life by logotherapy and thus associated with reductions in depression. Mental health nurses could help patients to find hope by exploring meaning in life and promoting positive attitudes towards life from meaningless life to meaningful life, there is a reduction in depression, which in turn reduces suicidal ideation indirectly. Introduction Meaning in life can be good protective factor against depression, hopelessness and suicidal ideation. Aim To analyse the mediating effect of meaning in life on the associations among hopelessness, depression and suicidal ideation. Method A cross-sectional study was conducted among 90 patients diagnosed with depression. A structural equation modelling approach was applied for this path analysis to examine the mediating effect of meaning in life on the association among hopelessness, depression and suicidal ideation. Results The results showed that meaning in life mediated the association between hopelessness and depression. Hopelessness had a direct positive association with depression (β = 0.23, p < .03), and meaning in life had a direct negative association with depression (β = -0.51, p < .01) and indirect association with suicidal ideation through depression; this indirect association was -0.21 (p < .01). Discussion Meaning in life revealed strong mediating association with the relationship between hopelessness and depression. By reducing the level of depression, meaning in life demonstrated its mediator association with suicidal ideation. Implications for Practice Logotherapy is a meaning-centred therapy to find meaning in life. Mental health nurses could help patients to manage their depression through logotherapy, thus leading to reductions in suicidal ideation.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There are many international studies on CRHTTs; however, there has been little research on nurses' experiences of working with CRHTTs. Earlier studies focused on the nurses' gatekeeping role but did not explore nurses' perception of care as a construct. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study provides information based on mental health nurses' experiences. It explains the home environment, the therapeutic relationship and the process of mental health nursing care during a crisis. Also, the study explains nurses' satisfaction with care provided at patients' home. Unlike other studies, this study focused on nurses' experiences while providing care, rather than on nurses' general responsibilities and the services they provide. This study is the first of its kind in Spain with such a focus. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Acknowledging nurses' experiences and their perspectives about the care they provide could help shift mental health nursing paradigms from those based on biomedical models to newer perspectives found in recovery models. Furthermore, this knowledge could improve the quality of care in mental health settings due to its potential to guide nursing practices. Raising mental health care providers' awareness of mental health nurses' personal and professional care constructs would help implement support systems to meet the professional's needs. Meeting the needs of nurses related to the care they provide is likely to impact patient care positively. INTRODUCTION: Crisis resolution home treatment teams (CRHTTs) provide short-term, intensive home treatment to people experiencing mental health crises. There is limited research on nurses' experiences with CRHTTs. While earlier studies mainly focussed on mental health nurses' gatekeeping responsibilities, more investigation is needed in this field. To explore nurses' perceptions and constructions about care in CRHTT services. A qualitative case study was employed. Ten semi-structured interviews were performed to nursing staff working in CRHTT services. Three main categories emerged from the data analysis: nurses' perspectives of the care provided, nursing setting of care at home and nursing care plan at home. Findings revealed that nurses experienced greater satisfaction providing care in the home settings, and therefore, it positively impacted the quality of care and reduced patient's stigma. This study also relates the value of developing care plans centred on patients' environments increasing Mental Health Nursing (MHN) work satisfaction. Knowledge of the intrinsic experiences of care provided by nurses in CRHTTs may help facilitate the development of the nursing role in CRHTT by improving understanding of care in mental health settings.

Early life stress can be caused by acute or chronic exposure to childhood events, such as emotional, physical, sexual abuse, and neglect. Early stress is associated with subsequent alterations in physical and mental health, which can extend into adolescence, adulthood, and even old age. The effects of early stress exposure include alterations in cognitive, neuropsychological, and behavioral functions, and can even lead to the development of psychiatric disorders and changes in brain anatomy. The present manuscript provides a review of the main findings on these effects reported in the scientific literature in recent decades. Early life stress is associated with the presence of psychiatric disorders, mainly mood disorders such as depression and risk of suicide, as well as with the presence of post-traumatic stress disorder. At the neuropsychological level, the involvement of different mental processes such as executive functions, abstract reasoning, certain memory modalities, and poor school-skill performance has been reported. In addition, we identified reports of alterations of different subdomains of each of these processes. Regarding neuroanatomical effects, the involvement of cortical regions, subcortical nuclei, and the subcortical white matter has been documented. Among the telencephalic regions most affected and studied are the prefrontal cortex, the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the anterior cingulate cortex. Understanding the impact of early life stress on postnatal brain development is very important for the orientation of therapeutic intervention programs and could help in the formulation and implementation of preventive measures as well as in the reorientation of research targets.

Although the impact of macrolevel characteristics of health systems on socioeconomic inequity in health has been studied extensively, the impact of access characteristics on a smaller scale of health systems has received less attention. These mesolevel characteristics can influence access to healthcare and might have the potential to moderate or aggravate socioeconomic inequity in healthcare use. This scoping review aims to map the existing evidence of the association of socioeconomic inequity in healthcare use and mesolevel access characteristics of the health system. In conducting the scoping review, we follow the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols Extension for Scoping Reviews. The search will be carried out in four scientific databases: MEDLINE (via PubMed), Web of Science, Scopus and PsycINFO. Main eligibility criteria are inclusion in the analysis of a measure of socioeconomic position, a measure of individual healthcare use and a mesolevel determinant of access to healthcare services. The selection process consists of two consecutive screening stages (first: title/abstract; second: full text). At both stages, two reviewers independently assess the eligibility of studies. In case of disagreement, a third reviewer will be involved. Cohen's kappa will be calculated to report inter-rater agreement between reviewers. Results are synthesised narratively, as a high heterogeneity of studies is expected. No primary data are collected for the presented scoping review. Therefore, ethical approval is not necessary. The scoping review will be published in an international peer-reviewed journal, and findings will be presented on national and international conferences.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Patient safety incident reporting has been recognized as a key process for organizational learning and safety culture; however, there is limited knowledge about patient safety in forensic psychiatric care. There are distinct patient safety issues in psychiatric nursing, associated (inter alia) with the self-harm, violence, seclusion/restrain and restrictions. Many adverse events are preventable. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: No harm was caused to patients in less than half (51%) of all reported incidents (in a Finnish forensic psychiatric hospital during a six-year period) considered in this study. The most common location of violent incidents was corridors (31%), followed by day rooms (20%), and patient rooms (15%). The most common patient safety incidence type was violence against another patient (38%), which typically occurred in corridors (36%), dayrooms (25%) and patient rooms (15%), and was usually related to daily activities in the afternoon (1,400-1,600 hr) and evening (1,800-2,000 hr). Typically, recommendations for improving patient safety focus on human behaviours. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is a need to notify and report all patient safety incidents (following staff training), learn from previous incidents (also learn for success), prevent typical incidents, learn for success, promote patient participation in incident prevention, share development measures outside the ward to enable exploitation by others and strengthen safety culture. In forensic psychiatry, conversation with patients regarding safety measures is strongly recommended to prevent patient safety incidents related to violence. The perspective should be extended from patient-specific factors to general factors such as patient treatment and general comfort and privacy. INTRODUCTION: Patient safety incident reporting has been recognized as a key process for organizational learning and safety culture, but there is limited knowledge about patient safety in forensic psychiatric care. To characterize the types and frequencies of incidents in forensic psychiatric care and assess the implications for practice. Data were collected from a patient safety incident reporting system (PSiRS) database of one forensic psychiatry hospital in Finland and analysed using descriptive statistics. No harm was caused in more than half of the 2,521 reported incidents examined (51%, n = 1,260). The most frequently recorded incident type was violence (38%), which typically occurred in corridors (31%) or dayrooms (20%). The most frequently recommended action to prevent violent events was that potential risks should be discussed (77%). Patient safety incidents related to violence are common in forensic psychiatric hospitals. Although very few adverse events were classified as causing serious harm to patients, many cases of violence could be prevented by identifying potential circumstances that lead to violence. Staff need encouragement and training to detect and report all patient safety incidents. Safety culture is strengthened by learning and sharing development measures to improve patient safety.

Many jurisdictions use a functional model of capacity with similar legal criteria, but there is a lack of agreed understanding as to how to apply these criteria in practice. We aimed to develop a typology of capacity rationales to describe court practice in making capacity determinations and to guide professionals approaching capacity assessments. We analysed all published cases from courts in England and Wales [Court of Protection (CoP) judgments, or Court of Appeal cases from the CoP] containing rationales for incapacity or intact capacity(n = 131). Qualitative content analysis was used to develop a typology of capacity rationales or abilities. Relationships between the typology and legal criteria for capacity [Mental Capacity Act (MCA)] and diagnoses were analysed. The typology had nine categories (reliability: kappa = 0.63): 1) to grasp information or concepts, 2) to imagine/ abstract, 3) to remember, 4) to appreciate, 5) to value/ care, 6) to think through the decision non-impulsively, 7) to reason, 8) to give coherent reasons, and 9) to express a stable preference. Rationales most frequently linked to MCA criterion 'understand' were ability to grasp information or concepts (43%) or to appreciate (42%), and to MCA criterion 'use or weigh' were abilities to appreciate (45%) or to reason (32%). Appreciation was the most frequently cited rationale across all diagnoses. Judges often used rationales without linking them specifically to any MCA criteria (42%). A new typology of rationales could bridge the gap between legal criteria for decision-making capacity and phenomena encountered in practice, increase reliability and transparency of assessments, and provide targets for decision-making support.

This Perspective presents comments intended for junior researchers by Carol A. Lange, Editor-in-Chief, Endocrinology, and Stephen R. Hammes, former Editor-in-Chief, Molecular Endocrinology, and former co-Editor-in-Chief, Endocrinology. 1. Know when you are ready and identify your target audience.2. Select an appropriate journal.3. Craft your title and abstract to capture your key words and deliver your message.4. Tell a clear and impactful story.5. Review, polish, and perfect your manuscript.

Involuntary psychiatric inpatient care presents a unique ethical challenge not least because the dignity of a person whose liberty and autonomy are restricted is inherently at risk. Understanding patients' experience of voluntary and involuntary care is an important part of ensuring that dignity is upheld as a key value. This study aimed to provide the first thematic synthesis of the existing literature on patient experience of dignity in voluntary and involuntary inpatient psychiatric care. PubMed (United States National Library of Medicine), PsycInfo (American Psychological Association), the Cochrane Library and bibliographies of relevant articles were searched for peer-reviewed, English-language studies from the start date of the databases through May 2020. Systematic searches identified 202 original papers. Consensus criteria were used to determine study inclusion through abstract and manuscript review. Eighteen articles were initially identified as suitable and nine met criteria for the final analysis. This study followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Given the high proportion of qualitative literature, a thematic synthesis approach was adopted. Critical Appraisal Skills Program (CASP) checklists were used to assess quality of papers. Familiarization and line-by-line coding were carried out on qualitative studies and a thematic framework developed using an iterative approach. Six key themes emerged: coercion; powerlessness; care environment; relationship to staff; impact of involuntary treatment, and paradoxes. These encompassed 15 subthemes, comprising 111 individual statements. Despite dignity being at the core of this review, only five of the identified papers explicitly referenced the term. Nevertheless, core similarities in patient experiences and perspectives existed across a wide variety of primary studies from multiple sites. These themes can be taken to represent the components of dignified care and used as a framework for further research and service reform.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) are associated with numerous physical and mental health issues in children and adults. The effect of ACEs on development of childhood obesity is less understood. This systematic review was undertaken to synthesize the quantitative research examining the relationship between ACEs and childhood obesity. PubMed, PsycInfo, and Web of Science were searched in July 2020; Rayyan was used to screen studies, and the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used to assess risk of bias. The search resulted in 6,966 studies screened at title/abstract and 168 at full-text level. Twenty-four studies met inclusion criteria. Study quality was moderate, with greatest risk of bias due to method of assessment of ACEs or sample attrition. Findings suggest ACEs are associated with childhood obesity. Girls may be more sensitive to obesity-related effects of ACEs than boys, sexual abuse appears to have a greater effect on childhood obesity than other ACEs, and co-occurrence of multiple ACEs may be associated with greater childhood obesity risk. Further, the effect of ACEs on development of childhood obesity may take 2-5 years to manifest. Considered collectively, findings suggest a need for greater attention to ACEs in the prevention and treatment of childhood obesity.

There are pervasive and documented disparities in maternal and infant outcomes related to race and ethnicity. Critical awareness is growing in our current cultural environment about strategies to improve health equity, the need to challenge implicit bias, and dismantle racism in healthcare to decrease racial health inequities. In this article, we provide a summary of health inequities that exist within the perinatal/neonatal population and offer strategies for initiating conversations and improving health equity by challenging bias and increasing diversity. Transformative leaders must understand the evidence related to health disparities, understand social drivers of inequity issues, and identify solutions to influence change. With heightened awareness and examination of implicit bias, we can improve care for all infants and their families. We need to continue research and quality improvement efforts to improve health equity. Furthermore, research is needed that focus on social determinants of health as drivers of preterm delivery and birth complications, rather than biological (eg, racialized) factors.Video Abstract available at:https://journals.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/Pages/videogallery.aspx?autoPlay=false&videoId=42.

Global responses to the COVID-19 pandemic have exposed and exacerbated existing socioeconomic and health inequities that disproportionately affect the sexual health and well-being of many populations, including people of color, ethnic minority groups, women, and sexual and gender minority populations. Although there have been several reviews published on COVID-19 and health disparities across various populations, none has focused on sexual health. We plan to conduct a scoping review that seeks to fill several of the gaps in the current knowledge of sexual health in the COVID-19 era. A scoping review focusing on sexual health and COVID-19 will be conducted. We will search (from January 2020 onwards) CINAHL, Africa-Wide Information, Web of Science Core Collection, Embase, Gender Studies Database, Gender Watch, Global Health, WHO Global Literature on Coronavirus Disease Database, WHO Global Index Medicus, PsycINFO, MEDLINE, and Sociological Abstracts. Grey literature will be identified using Disaster Lit, Google Scholar, governmental websites, and clinical trials registries (e.g., ClinicalTrial.gov , World Health Organization, International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number Registry). Study selection will conform to the Joanna Briggs Institute Reviewers' Manual 2015 Methodology for JBI Scoping Reviews. Only English language, original studies will be considered for inclusion. Two reviewers will independently screen all citations, full-text articles, and abstract data. A narrative summary of findings will be conducted. Data analysis will involve quantitative (e.g., frequencies) and qualitative (e.g., content and thematic analysis) methods. Original research is urgently needed to mitigate the risks of COVID-19 on sexual health. The planned scoping review will help to address this gap. Systematic Review Registration: Open Science Framework osf/io/PRX8E.

Despite the well-established health benefits of physical activity (PA) for young people (aged 4-19 years), most do not meet PA guidelines. Policies that support PA in schools may be promising, but their impact on PA behavior is poorly understood. The aim of this systematic review was to ascertain the level and type of evidence reported in the international scientific literature for policies within the school setting that contribute directly or indirectly to increasing PA. This systematic review is compliant with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis guidelines. Six databases were searched using key concepts of policy, school, evaluation, and PA. Following title and abstract screening of 2323 studies, 25 progressed to data synthesis. Methodological quality was assessed using standardized tools, and the strength of the evidence of policy impact was described based on pre-determined codes: positive, negative, inconclusive, or untested statistically. Evidence emerged for 9 policy areas that had a direct or indirect effect on PA within the school setting. These were whole school PA policy, physical education, sport/extracurricular PA, classroom-based PA, active breaks/recess, physical environment, shared use agreements, active school transport, and surveillance. The bulk of the evidence was significantly positive (54%), 27% was inconclusive, 9% was significantly negative, and 11% was untested (due to rounding, some numbers add to 99% or 101%). Frequency of evidence was highest in the primary setting (41%), 34% in the secondary setting, and 24% in primary/secondary combined school settings. By policy area, frequency of evidence was highest for sport/extracurricular PA (35%), 17% for physical education, and 12% for whole school PA policy, with evidence for shared use agreements between schools and local communities rarely reported (2%). Comparing relative strength of evidence, the evidence for shared use agreements, though sparse, was 100% positive, while 60% of the evidence for whole school PA policy, 59% of the evidence for sport/extracurricular PA, 57% of the evidence for physical education, 50% of the evidence for PA in classroom, and 50% of the evidence for active breaks/recess were positive. The current evidence base supports the effectiveness of PA policy actions within the school setting but cautions against a "one-size-fits-all" approach and emphasizes the need to examine policy implementation to maximize translation into practice. Greater clarity regarding terminology, measurement, and methods for evaluation of policy interventions is needed.

This study aimed to examine the relationships between various maternal socioeconomic status (SES) indicators and the risk of congenital heart disease (CHD). This was a population-based retrospective cohort study, including all singleton stillbirths and live births in Ontario hospitals from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2018. Multivariable logistic regression models were performed to examine the relationships between maternal neighbourhood household income, poverty, education level, employment and unemployment status, immigration and minority status, and population density and the risk of CHD. All SES variables were estimated at a dissemination area level and categorized into quintiles. Adjustments were made for maternal age at birth, assisted reproductive technology, obesity, pre-existing maternal health conditions, substance use during pregnancy, rural or urban residence, and infant's sex. Of 804,292 singletons, 9731 (1.21%) infants with CHD were identified. Compared to infants whose mothers lived in the highest income neighbourhoods, infants whose mothers lived in the lowest income neighbourhoods had higher likelihood of developing CHD (adjusted OR: 1.29, 95% CI: 1.20-1.38). Compared to infants whose mothers lived in the neighbourhoods with the highest percentage of people with a university or higher degree, infants whose mothers lived in the neighbourhoods with the lowest percentage of people with university or higher degree had higher chance of CHD (adjusted OR: 1.34, 95% CI: 1.24-1.44). Compared to infants whose mothers lived in the neighbourhoods with the highest employment rate, the odds of infants whose mothers resided in areas with the lowest employment having CHD was 18% higher (adjusted OR: 1.18, 95% CI: 1.10-1.26). Compared to infants whose mothers lived in the neighbourhoods with the lowest proportion of immigrants or minorities, infants whose mothers resided in areas with the highest proportions of immigrants or minorities had 18% lower odds (adjusted OR: 0.82, 95% CI: 0.77-0.88) and 16% lower odds (adjusted OR: 0.84, 95% CI: 0.78-0.91) of CHD, respectively. Lower maternal neighbourhood household income, poverty, lower educational level and unemployment status had positive associations with CHD, highlighting a significant social inequity in Ontario. The findings of lower CHD risk in immigrant and minority neighbourhoods require further investigation.

The progress of a discipline depends on the knowledge widely shared, an aim fulfilled by publications. But which are the factors influencing publication? We examine predictors of a subsequent publication for abstracts submitted to the annual scientific conference of the German Society of Orthodontics (DGKFO). For all 288 abstracts presented in 2014 and 2015 we recorded presentation format, number and gender of authors, study design and university affiliation. Subsequent publication as a peer-reviewed full-text article was researched over a period of more than three years. A total of 88 abstracts (30.6 %) were published in full-text after a mean time span of 1.2±1.6 years after the respective conference. In multivariate logistic regression, secondary studies (OR 9.27 [1.51-57.04]; p=0.016), a higher number of authors (OR 1.21 [1.02-1.43]; p=0.030), a higher percentage of female authors (OR 1.01 [1.00-1.03]; p=0.036) but male gender of the first author (OR 2.10 [1.11-3.98]; p=0.023) resulted in a higher probability of getting published as a journal paper. Our investigation shows that secondary studies, a higher number of authors, a higher percentage of women among the authors and male first authors are predictive factors of publication. After more than three years, only about one third of the abstracts presented at the DGKFO annual scientific conference have been published as a full-text journal article, meaning that a huge part of knowledge remains unshared.

To perform the first systematic review of all available gender-affirming surgery (GAS) publications across all procedures to assess both outcomes reported in the literature and the methods used for outcome assessment. Rapidly increasing clinical volumes of gender-affirming surgeries have stimulated a growing need for high-quality clinical research. Although some procedures have been performed for decades, each individual procedure has limited data, necessitating synthesis of the entire literature to understand current knowledge and guide future research. A systematic review was performed following Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines to identify all outcomes measures in GAS cohorts, including PCOs, complications, and functional outcomes. Outcome data were pooled to assess currently reported complication, satisfaction, and other outcome rates. Overall, 15,186 references were identified, 4162 papers advanced to abstract review, and 1826 underwent full-text review. After review, there were 406 GAS cohort publications. Of non-genitoplasty titles, 35 were mastectomy, 6 mammoplasty, 21 facial feminization, and 31 voice/cartilage. Although 59.1% of non-genitoplasty papers addressed PCOs in some form, only 4.3% used instruments partially-validated in transgender patients. Overall, data were reported heterogeneously and were biased towards high-volume centers. This study represents the most comprehensive review of GAS literature. By aggregating all previously utilized measurement instruments, this study offers a foundation for discussions about current methodologic limitations and what dimensions must be included in assessing surgical success. We have assembled a comprehensive list of outcome instruments; this offers an ideal starting basis for emerging discussions between patients and providers about deficiencies which new, better instruments and metrics must address. The lack of consistent use of the same outcome measures and validated GAS-specific instruments represent the 2 primary barriers to high-quality research where improvement efforts should be focused.

The goal of this scoping review is to evaluate and synthesize the published research regarding bullying and children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing (DHH). The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for scoping review (PRISMA-ScR) statement was used as the guideline for conducting this review. This review included studies assessing pediatric (0-21 years) DHH children. Seventy records underwent the initial title-abstract screening, 33 underwent full-text review, and 23 studies met inclusion criteria. During the data extraction process, an additional six were excluded, resulting in a total of 17 evaluated studies. Of the 17 studies assessed, nine compared peer victimization of DHH children and their hearing peers. Of those, seven studies reported that hearing loss (HL) is significantly associated with increased victimization. Two studies found that HL is significantly associated with decreased bullying perpetration. Notably, bullying in DHH children was not associated with a visible sign of disability, such as a hearing assistive device. Rather, variables such as educational setting, parental, and peer support are more likely to mediate bullying in this population. DHH children have a higher risk of peer victimization and may bully others less often than their hearing peers. Studies described the health consequences of bullying in children who are DHH, including sleep issues and anxiety. These consequences may have implications for the patients' overall HL management. Additional research regarding bullying interventions and prevention in this population should be conducted. NA Laryngoscope, 131:1884-1892, 2021.

Children in lower middle-income countries (LMICs) are more at risk of dying, than those in High Income Countries (HICs), due to highly prevalent deadly yet preventable childhood infections. Alongside concerns about the incidence of these infections, there has been a renewed interest in involving community health workers (CHWs) in various public health programs. However, as CHWs are increasingly asked to take on different tasks there is a risk that their workload may become unmanageable. One solution to help reduce this burden is the use of mobile health (mHealth) technology in the community through behaviour change. Considering there are various CHWs based mHealth approaches on illness management and education, therefore, we aimed to appraise the available literature on effectiveness of these mHealth approaches for caregivers to improve knowledge and management about common under-five childhood infections with respect to behaviour change. We searched six databases between October to December 2019 using subject heading (Mesh) and free text terms in title or abstract in US English. We included multiple study types of children under-five or their caregivers who have been counselled, educated, or provided any health care service by CHWs for any common paediatric infectious diseases using mHealth. We excluded articles published prior to 1990 and those including mHealth technology not coming under the WHO definition. A data extraction sheet was developed and titles, abstracts, and selected full text were reviewed by two reviewers. Quality assessment was done using JBI tools. We included 23 articles involving around 300 000 individuals with eight types of study designs. 20 studies were conducted in Africa, two in Asia, and one in Latin America mainly on pneumonia or respiratory tract infections followed by malaria and diarrhoea in children. The most common types of Health approaches were mobile applications for decision support, text message reminders and use of electronic health record systems. None of the studies employed the use of any behaviour change model or any theoretical framework for selection of models in their studies. Coupling mhealth with CHWs has the potential to benefit communities in improving management of illnesses in children under-five. High quality evidence on impact of such interventions on behaviour is relatively sparse and further studies should be conducted using theoretically informed behaviour change frameworks/models. PROPSERO Registration number: CRD42018117679.

Kimberlé Crenshaw coined the term "intersectionality" in 1989 as a critique of feminist and critical race scholarship's neglect of-respectively-race and gender. Since then, the concept has been interpreted and reinterpreted to appeal to new disciplinary, geographical, and sociocultural audiences, generating heated debates over its appropriation and continued political significance. Drawing on all 3,807 publications in Scopus that contain the word "intersectionality" in the title, abstract, or keywords, we map the spread of intersectionality in academia through its citations. Network analysis reveals the contours of its diffusion among the 6,098 scholars in our data set, while automated text analysis, manual coding, and the close reading of publications reveal how the application and interpretation of intersectional thinking has evolved over time and space. We find that the diffusion network exhibits communities that are not well demarcated by either discipline or geography. Communities form around one or a few highly referenced scholars who introduce intersectionality to new audiences while reinterpreting it in a way that speaks to their research interests. By examining the microscopic interactions of publications and citations, our complex systems approach is able to identify the macroscopic patterns of a controversial concept's diffusion.

Since December 2019, the world has been experiencing the challenge of facing coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19), a severe infectious disease caused by the new coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. The individuals with the most severe symptoms and the highest risk of death are the elderly and those with chronic illness. Among chronic conditions, those with a certain degree of chronic inflammation may predispose to a more severe evolution of COVID-19. Elderly with psychiatric disorders can present a persistent inflammatory state, a characteristic of the age's immunological senescence, but the disorder can accentuate that. Social isolation is still the safest way to avoid contamination. However, isolated older people may have or worsen mental health conditions due to isolation and health concerns. In this scenario, a SARS-CoV-2 infection may progress to more severe disease. Conversely, COVID-19 can predispose or aggravate psychiatric disorders, as it induces a cytokine storm, causing systemic hyper inflammation. It may damage the blood-brain barrier, resulting in inflammation in the central nervous system. Besides, SARS-CoV-2 is likely to reach and trigger an inflammatory process directly in the nervous system. This review makes an update about research on the mental health of the elderly during the pandemic. Also, it discusses the vulnerability of these individuals in the face of stress and in the case of contracting COVID-19, considering mainly the stress's hormonal and inflammatory mechanisms. Finally, the review points out possible care and attention strategies and entertainment and activities that can reduce the damage to mental and physical health and improve the elderly's quality of life. Graphical abstract Isolation and concerns about COVID-19 may harm elderly mental health. Immunosenescence and pandemic stress increase the risk of psychiatric disorders. Stress and disorders may potentiate the elderly's inflammation and COVID-19 symptoms. SARS-CoV-2 hyperinflammation is a risk factor for elderly psychiatric disorders.

[No Abstract Available].

This study aims to systematically review the effects of maternal vitamin and/or mineral supplementation on the content of breast milk. We systematically searched electronic databases including Medline via PubMed, Scopus and ISI Web of Science till May 24, 2018. The following terms were used systematically in all mentioned databases: ("human milk" OR "breast milk" OR "breast milk composition" OR "human breast milk composition" OR "composition breast milk" OR "mother milk" OR "human breast milk" OR "maternal milk") AND ("vitamin a" OR "retinol" OR "retinal" OR "retinoic acid" OR "beta-carotene" OR "beta carotene" OR "ascorbic acid" OR "l-ascorbic acid" OR "l ascorbic acid" OR "vitamin c" OR "vitamin d" OR "cholecalciferol" OR "ergocalciferol" OR "calciferol" OR "vitamin e" OR "tocopherol" OR "tocotrienol" OR "alpha-tocopherol" OR "alpha tocopherol" OR "α-tocopherol" OR "α tocopherol" OR "vitamin k" OR "vitamin b" OR "vitamin b complex" OR "zinc" OR "iron" OR "copper" Or "selenium" OR "manganese" OR "magnesium") and we searched Medline via Medical subject Headings (MeSH) terms. We searched Google Scholar for to increase the sensitivity of our search. The search was conducted on human studies, but it was not limited to the title and abstract. Methodological quality and risk of bias of included studies were evaluated by Jadad scale and Cochrane risk of bias tools, respectively. This review included papers on three minerals (zinc, iron, selenium) and 6 vitamins (vitamin A, B, D, C, E and K) in addition to multi-vitamin supplements. Although studies had different designs, e.g. not using random allocation and/or blinding, our findings suggest that maternal use of some dietary supplements, including vitamin A, D, vitamin B1, B2 and vitamin C might be reflected in human milk. Vitamin supplements had agreater effect on breast milk composition compared to minerals. Higher doses of supplements showed higher effects and they were reflected more in colostrum than in the mature milk. Maternal dietary vitamin and/or mineral supplementation, particularly fat- soluble vitamins, vitamin B1, B2 and C might be reflected in the breast milk composition. No difference was found between mega dose and single dose administration of minerals.

To avoid a permanent stoma, restorative surgery is performed after the colectomy. Previous studies have shown that less than half of patients with ulcerative colitis undergo restorative surgery. The primary aim was to explore the association between socioeconomic status and restorative surgery after colectomy. This was a nationwide register-based cohort study. The study was conducted in Sweden. All Swedish patients with ulcerative colitis who underwent colectomy between 1990 and 2017 at the age of 15 to 69 years were included. The main outcome was restorative surgery, and the secondary outcome was failure of the reconstruction (defined as the need for a new ileostomy after the reconstruction or nonreversal of a defunctioning stoma within 2 years of the reconstruction). To calculate HRs for restorative surgery after colectomy, as well as failure after restorative surgery, multivariable Cox regression models were performed (adjusted for sex, year of colectomy, colorectal cancer diagnosis, education, civil status, country of birth, income (quartiles 1 to 4, where Q4 represents highest income), hospital volume, and stratified by age). In all, 5969 patients with ulcerative colitis underwent colectomy, and of those, 2794 (46.8%) underwent restorative surgery. Restorative surgery was more common in patients with a high income at the time of colectomy (quartile 1, reference; quartile 2, 1.09 (0.98-1.21); quartile 3, 1.20 (1.07-1.34); quartile 4, 1.27 (1.13-1.43)) and less common in those born in a Nordic country than in immigrants born in a non-Nordic country (0.86 (0.74-0.99)), whereas no association was seen with educational level and civil status. There was no association between socioeconomic status and the risk of failure after restorative surgery. The study was restricted to register data. Restorative surgery in ulcerative colitis appears to be more common in patients with a high income and patients born in a non-Nordic country, indicating inequality in the provided care. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B433. ANTECEDENTES:Para evitar un estoma permanente, se realiza una cirugía reparadora después de la colectomía. Estudios anteriores han demostrado que menos de la mitad de los pacientes con colitis ulcerosa se someten a cirugía reconstituyente.OBJETIVO:El objetivo principal fue explorar la asociación entre el nivel socioeconómico y la cirugía reconstituyente después de la colectomía.DISEÑO:Estudio de cohorte basado en registros a nivel nacional.MARCO:Suecia.PACIENTES:Todos los pacientes Suecos con colitis ulcerosa que se sometieron a colectomía desde el 1990 a 2017 a la edad de 15 a 69 años.MEDIDAS DE RESULTADOS PRINCIPALES:El resultado principal fue la cirugía restaurativa y el resultado secundario fue el fracaso de la reconstrucción (definida como la necesidad de una nueva ileostomía después de la reconstrucción o la no-reversión de un estoma disfuncional dentro de los dos años posteriores a la reconstrucción). Para calcular los cocientes de riesgo para la cirugía restauradora después de la colectomía, así como el fracaso después de la cirugía restauradora, se realizaron modelos de regresión de Cox multivariables (ajustados por sexo, año de colectomía, diagnóstico de cáncer colorrectal, educación, estado civil, país de nacimiento e ingresos (cuartiles 1- 4; donde Q4 representa los mayores ingresos), volumen de hospitales y estratificado por edad).RESULTADOS:En total 5969 pacientes con colitis ulcerosa se sometieron a colectomía, y de ellos 2794 (46,8%) se sometieron a cirugía restauradora. La cirugía restauradora fue más común en pacientes con altos ingresos en el momento de la colectomía (referencia del cuartil 1, cuartil 2: 1,09 (0,98-1,21), cuartil 3: 1,20 (1,07-1,34), cuartil 4: 1,27 (1,13-1,43)), y menos común en los nacidos en un país nórdico que en los inmigrantes nacidos en un país no-nórdico (0,86 (0,74-0,99)), mientras que no se observó asociación con el nivel educativo y el estado civil. No hubo asociación entre el nivel socioeconómico y el riesgo de fracaso después de la cirugía reparadora.LIMITACIONES:Restricción para registrar datos.CONCLUSIONES:La cirugía reparadora en colitis ulcerosa parece ser más común en pacientes con ingresos altos y en pacientes nacidos en un país no-nórdico, lo que indica desigualdad en la atención brindada. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B433.

Peer review is intended to improve the quality and clarity of scientific reports. Upon rejection, authors receive suggestions from knowledgeable field experts. It is unclear whether authors take full advantage of the peer review process to improve their work before publication in another journal. We identified all actionable suggestions in rejection letters of 250 randomly selected manuscripts from a prominent orthopedic journal in 2012. We searched PubMed and Google Scholar and compared the published text to the initial submission to determine if reviewer suggestions were addressed. Two hundred (80%) of the 250 rejected manuscripts were published in another journal by July 2018. Among the 609 substantive actionable queries, 205 (34%) were addressed in the published manuscripts. The suggestions most frequently addressed were in the title and abstract (48%). Our findings suggest that authors often disregard advice from peer reviewers after rejection. Authors may regard the peer review process as particular to a journal rather than a process to optimize dissemination of useful, accurate knowledge in any media. Specialty journalsmight consider collaborating by using a single manuscript submission site that allows peer reviews to be transferred to the next journal, which helps holding authors accountable for making the suggested changes.

Emergency food aid is the most essential response of the international community to natural disasters and complex emergencies. The humanitarian aid organizations sometimes have been encountered with different challenges during the feeding process to target groups. The aim of this article is to review the food aid challenges in receiving countries of humanitarian food assistance during disasters and emergencies. This systematic review was conducted in August 2019, and the search was limited to published evidence before July 1, 2019. Through this systematic review, the international electronic databases such as PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, ProQuest, and Google Scholar were investigated for the studies published in English. The articles were assessed based on title, abstract, and full text by Joanna Briggs Institute critical appraisal tools. Then, descriptive and thematic analyses were done to extract the most relevant food challenges in recipient countries of humanitarian food assistance. A total of 179 studies were found. Of which, 34 and 118 were excluded because of duplication and quality appraisal, respectively. Finally, 27 eligible articles and reports were included in this study, and 30 main challenges were determined during the international humanitarian food assistance in receiving countries. The challenges were categorized in seven main category of availability (two subcategories), access (six subcategories), utilization (three subcategories), coordination and collaboration (eight subcategories), political and legal issues (three subcategories), monitoring and assessment (six subcategories), and human rights (two subcategories). The most repeated challenges were related to access and monitoring. Most of the extracted food aid challenges allocated to time after occurring the disasters. Regarding to the result of this study, further research should be conducted to suggest the practical approaches for solving the mentioned challenges and increase the effectiveness of such aids.

Although combat stress and psychiatric casualties of war have consistently contributed to the need for deployed patient transport to higher echelons of care, little is known regarding specific evidence-based strategies for providing psychological support and optimal transport interventions for warriors. The purpose of this scoping review is to map existing literature related to considerations for deployed mental health patient transport. The review's primary aims are to identify the existing scientific research evidence, determine research and training gaps, and recommend critical areas for future military research. We used Arksey and O'Malley's six-stage scoping review methodological framework (identify the research question, identify relevant studies, select studies, chart data, report results, and consultation). Using a systematic search strategy, we evaluated peer-reviewed literature from five databases (PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Web of Science, and Embase) and gray literature from the Defense Technical Information Center. All publications were independently screened for eligibility by two researchers during three review rounds (title, abstract, and full text). We identified 1,384 publications, 61 of which met our inclusion criteria. Most publications and technical reports were level IV evidence and below, primarily retrospective cohort studies and epidemiologic surveillance reports. Few rigorously designed studies were identified. Eight research themes and a variety of research and critical training gaps were derived from the reviewed literature. Themes included (1) characterizing mental health patients aeromedically evacuated from theater; (2) in-flight sedation medications; (3) need for aeromedical evacuation (AE) in-theater education, training, and guidelines for staff; (4) epidemiological surveillance of AE from theater; (5) mental health management in deployed settings; (6) suicide-related event management; (7) transport issues for mental health patients; and (8) psychological stressors of AE. Research is needed to establish clinical practice guidelines for mental health condition management in theater and throughout the continuum of en route care.

Family members of young people (13-24 years) with long-term conditions tend to experience multiple challenges when their children transfer from paediatric to adult care, as do the patients themselves. To identify, interpret and theoretically conceptualise the meaning of parents' experiences of the transfer from paediatric to adult care of their young people with long-term conditions. A qualitative research synthesis. We obtained articles from Medline, CINAHL, PsycINFO, EMBASE, Scopus, and Web of Science. Unpublished theses and dissertations were searched for using Google Scholar, Mednar, and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses. Based on a previously published protocol, we followed the guidelines from the Joanna Briggs Institute. Sandelowski and Barroso's qualitative research synthesis approach guided the metasynthesis. Articles published between 1999 and March 2019 were systematically searched for. Twenty-three reports from seven Western countries representing 454 parents including significant others such as aunts and grandparents of 462 young people with various diagnoses contributed to the review. 'Being cross-pressured' was the metasynthesis found to reflect parents' experiences of the transfer from paediatric to adult care of their young people with long-term conditions. The metasynthesis comprised four themes: 'Fluctuating between parental roles', 'Navigating contrasting healthcare contexts', 'Making decisions in the face of inner conflict', and 'Trusting their child's self-management ability'. Our metasynthesis finding of parents' experiences of being cross-pressured provides a new way of thinking about the study phenomena which is supported by transitions theory holding that multiple transitions can take place simultaneously involving myriads of concurrent and conflicting demands. The cross pressure may overwhelm parents. The clinical implications are to recognise parents' experiences and distress in healthcare planning to promote safe and predicable transfers of their young people. Provision of healthcare to parents during transfer needs to be tailored to a collaborative decision-making process between parents, their young people, and involved practitioners across paediatric and adult healthcare services. Tweetable abstract: Parents experienced being cross-pressured when their young people with long-term conditions were transferred from paediatric to adult care.

To assess the main functions of parent-provider communication in the neonatal (intensive) care unit (NICU) and determine what adequate communication entails according to both parents and health professionals. A systematic review and meta-synthesis of qualitative research. PubMed, Ebsco/PsycINFO, Wiley/Cochrane Library, Ebsco/CINAHL, Clarivate Analytics/Web of Science Core Collection, and Elsevier/Scopus were searched in October-November 2019 for records on interpersonal communication between parents and providers in neonatal care. Title/abstract screening and full-text analysis were conducted by multiple, independent coders. Data from included articles were analyzed using deductive and inductive thematic analysis. 43 records were included. Thematic analysis of data resulted in the development of the NICU Communication Framework, including four functions of communication (1. building/maintaining relationships, 2. exchanging information, 3. (sharing) decision-making, 4. enabling parent self-management) and five factors that contribute to adequate communication across these functions (topic, aims, location, route, design) and, thereby, to tailored parent-provider communication. The NICU Communication Framework fits with the goals of Family Integrated Care to encourage parent participation in infants' care. This framework forms a first step towards the conceptualization of (adequate) communication in NICU settings. Findings can be used to improve NICU communication in practice, in particular through the mnemonic TAILORED.

A healthy healthcare system requires healthy healthcare workers. Protecting healthcare workers including nurses against COVID-19 is crucial, and vaccination could be a viable future option. However, vaccine hesitancy remains a global challenge. Nurses, as a trustworthy and creditable source of vaccine-related information, may build public confidence in vaccination. Hence, research on vaccine hesitancy among nurses is warranted. This study estimated nurses' influenza vaccination behaviors and intention to receive COVID-19 vaccine when available, and examined their corresponding 5C psychological antecedents (confidence, complacency, constraints, calculation, and collective responsibility). To investigate the impact of COVID-19-related work demands, the mediation effects of work stress on the association between work demands and COVID-19 vaccination intention were also examined. Cross-sectional online survey SETTINGS: Nurses were invited to participate via the promotion of a professional nursing organization and by personal referrals during the COVID-19 outbreak in Hong Kong between mid-March and late April 2020. 1,205 eligible nurses (mean age = 40.79, SD = 10.47; 90% being female) were included in the analyses. Demographics, influenza vaccination, intention to have COVID-19 vaccine, the 5C vaccine hesitancy components, work stress and COVID-19-related work demands (insufficient supply of personal protective equipment, involvement in isolation rooms, and unfavorable attitudes towards workplace infection control policies) were reported in the survey. The influenza vaccine uptake rate and the proportion intending to take COVID-19 vaccine were 49% and 63%, respectively. Influenza vaccination was associated with working in public hospitals and all 5C constructs (more confidence, more collective responsibility and less complacency, constraints, and calculation), whereas stronger COVID-19 vaccination intention was associated with younger age, more confidence, less complacency and more collective responsibility. COVID-19-related demands were associated with greater work stress, and hence stronger COVID-19 vaccination intention. The potential uptake rate of COVID-19 vaccine among nurses was suboptimal to achieve herd immunity. The 5C constructs were useful in predicting influenza vaccination and, to a lesser extent, the intention to take COVID-19 vaccine. The uncertain attributes such as effectiveness, side effects, and effective duration of the COVID-19 vaccine may contribute to this discrepancy. With less work stress among nurses in the post-pandemic period, the intention to take COVID-19 vaccine will likely drop. The 5C constructs should be infused in vaccination campaigns. While a COVID-19 vaccine could be ready soon, the nursing profession may not be ready to accept it. More research work is needed to boost the uptake rate. Less than two-third of nurses intended to take COVID-19 vaccine when available. While a COVID-19 vaccine could be ready soon, nursing profession is not ready to accept it.

Mentoring nurses in writing for nursing excellence.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is a scarcity of studies concerning violence in psychiatric outpatient settings in the 2010s in spite of the deinstitutionalization of psychiatric services. Previous research on violence in psychiatric outpatient settings has failed to consider the association between the psychological consequences of violence, exposures to violence and background factors. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: It has been known for some time that exposures to violence are harmful for psychiatric inpatient nurses; the paper demonstrates that psychiatric outpatient nurses are also at risk. The psychological consequences of exposure to violence are highly individualized and influenced by background factors. Nurses who face harassment have a greater risk of suffering psychological symptoms. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: De-escalation interventions should be implemented in psychiatric outpatient settings. Organizations should consider the possibility of internal violence occurring when planning preventive interventions to manage and reduce workplace violence. Education targeted at violence prevention, management and debriefing should be organized systematically in psychiatric outpatient units and be taken into consideration in the mental health nursing curriculum. ABSTRACT: Introduction There is a scarcity of studies concerning violence and its consequences in psychiatric outpatient setting. Aim This study aimed to explore the occurrence of workplace violence and the psychological consequences of exposure to violence among nurses working in psychiatric outpatient settings. Method Research followed a cross-sectional survey design. Data were collected with the VIA-Q instrument. Results During the 12 months prior to the study, nurses (n = 181) had most often experienced psychological violence, with fatigue being the most common consequence. Harassment most often caused feelings of violated integrity, whereas physical violence most often caused insomnia. Significant relationships between exposure to violence and psychological consequences were identified. Discussion Workplace violence can manifest in a broad array of psychological symptoms and be harmful for nurses in psychiatric outpatient settings. It is important to discuss the subject of workplace violence and its place in the nursing curriculum and to reflect on how nurses are educated and trained to face violence in psychiatric nursing. Implications for Practice De-escalation interventions should be implemented in psychiatric outpatient settings. Organizations should take steps to abolish internal violence. Nurses need appropriate education in order to prepare them to manage workplace violence.

[No Available Abstract].

The COVID-19 pandemic has interrupted everyday life virtually everywhere in the world, enabling real-life research on threat-and-defense processes. In a survey conducted within the first days of implementing social distancing measures in Austria and Germany, we aimed to explore the pathways from threat perception to preferences of defense strategies. We found that anxiety, approach-related affect, and reactance were specifically elicited by motivational (vs. epistemic) discrepancies. In a second step, we tested the mediating effect of anxiety, approach-related affect, and reactance on preferences regarding personal-social and concrete-abstract defenses. Experiencing anxiety was related to interest in security-related actions, and approach-affect was related to both personal projects and social media use. Participants experiencing reactance were more inclined to pursue personal projects (personal-abstract) and less interested in security-related (personal-concrete) actions. They also showed marginally lower system justification (social-abstract). Additionally, we examined the relationship of loneliness with defense strategies, showing that loneliness was associated with lower system justification and security behaviors. The results suggest that individuals deal with threat in their own ways, mostly depending on affective state and motivational orientation: Anxiety was related to security, approach-state to action (both social and personal), reactance to derogation of the system and disregard for security, while loneliness was associated with inaction.

To assess the impact of socio-economic deprivation on endometrial cancer survival. Single-centre prospective database study. North West England. Women with endometrial cancer treated between 2010 and 2015. Areal-level socio-economic status, using the English indices of multiple deprivation from residential postcodes, was analysed in relation to survival using Kaplan-Meier estimation and multivariable Cox regression. Overall survival, cancer-specific survival and patterns and rates of recurrence. A total of 539 women, with a median age of 66 years (interquartile range, IQR 56-73 years) and a body mass index (BMI) of 32 kg/m We found that socio-economically deprived women with endometrial cancer were more likely to develop fatal recurrence. Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings and to identify modifiable contributing factors. Socio-economic deprivation is linked to an increased risk of death from endometrial cancer in the North West of England.

For the Chinese, French, German, and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) homes most of the people living with HIV/AIDS in the world. Adolescents/young people are a vulnerable population and at high risk of HIV infection. Identifying and bridging the research gaps on the disclosure of HIV-positive status among adolescents, particularly to their sexual partners, is essential to inform appropriate policy planning and implementation towards preventing HIV transmission. This study will aim to explore literature and describe the evidence on HIV-positive status disclosure among adolescents in SSA. The framework provided by Arksey and O'Malley's framework and improved by Levac and colleagues will be used to conduct a scoping review. A keyword search for relevant literature presenting evidence on HIV-positive status disclosure among adolescents in SSA will be conducted in CINAHL, PubMed, Science Direct, Google Scholar, and SCOPUS. Date limitations will be removed, but Boolean terms "AND" and "OR" as well as Medical Subject Headings terms will be included where possible and syntax modified to suit the database during the search. Additional relevant articles will be sought from the reference lists of all included studies using a snowballing method. Two reviewers will independently screen the articles at the abstract and full-text screening phases in order to reduce bias and improve the reliability of this study's findings. A tabular form will be developed using Microsoft Word and piloted for data extraction. Thematic content analysis will be conducted, and a narrative summary of all relevant outcomes reported. Quality appraisal of the included studies for this proposed study will be performed utilizing the recent mixed methods appraisal tool. The evidence produced by this review may help inform policy and strategies to reduce the incidence of HIV infection among adolescents and improve social support for adolescents living with HIV/AIDS in SSA. It may also reveal literature gaps to guide future researches to further inform HIV policies for adolescents in SSA. Platforms such as peer review journals, policy briefs, and conferences will be used to disseminate this study's findings.

Preventive and therapeutic interventions for children of mentally ill parents 

No abstract avalilable.

No abstract avalilable.

No abstract avalilable.

No abstract avalilable.

Livestock interventions can improve nutrition, health, and economic well-being of communities. The objectives of this review were to identify and characterize livestock interventions in developing countries and to assess their effectiveness in achieving development outcomes. A scoping review, guided by a search strategy, was conducted. Papers needed to be written in English, published in peer-reviewed journals, and describe interventions in animal health and production. Out of 2739 publications systematically screened at the title, abstract, and full publication levels, 70 met our inclusion criteria and were considered in the study. Eight relatively high-quality papers were identified and added, resulting in 78 reviewed publications. Only 15 studies used randomized controlled trial designs making it possible to confidently link interventions with the resulting outcomes. Eight studies had human nutrition or health as outcomes, 11 focused on disease control, and four were on livestock production. Eight interventions were considered successful, but only four were scalable. We found good evidence that livestock-transfer programs, leveraging livestock products for nutrition, and helping farmers manage priority diseases, can improve human well-being. Our report highlights challenges in garnering evidence for livestock interventions in developing countries and provides suggestions on how to improve the quantity and quality of future evaluations.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Maternal mental illness reduces a mothers' ability to bond with their infant and may adversely affect other family members. Family-focused practice is an approach which has the potential to support mothers with mental illnesses and reduce the risk of familial transmission of mental illness to children. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Findings suggest that current interventions are not effective in reducing depression or stress among mothers. The majority of interventions included in this review employed relatively low levels of family-focused practice. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: While there is a growing integration of family-focused practice into home visiting guidelines, this may be based on poor evidence. There is a need for the development of rigorously tested interventions which seek to include the whole family. ABSTRACT: Introduction The evidence on effectiveness of family-focused home visiting for maternal mental illness has yet to be comprehensively synthesized. Aim The aim of this study was to assess current home visiting treatments and interventions for mothers with mental illness and their families. Method The primary and secondary outcomes of interest were depression and maternal stress, respectively, both were included in meta-analyses. We identified 13 (n = 5,540 participants) studies which met inclusion criteria. Eight studies were included in meta-analyses; five studies were reported narratively. Results Findings from the meta-analysis suggest that home visiting interventions are not effective in reducing depression (SMD -0.13, 95% CI -0.33 to 0.07, p = .21) and maternal stress (MD 0.59, 95% CI -5.19 to 6.38, p = .84). Discussion and Implications for practice Findings suggest that current interventions are not effective in reducing depression or stress among mothers. While there is a growing integration of family-focused practice into home visiting guidelines, this may be based on poor evidence.

Parenting capacity: Definitions, indicators, and assessment 

Storytelling as an innovative method of video-based education for parents of children with atopic dermatitis 

In the United States, firearm suicide represents a major cause of preventable, premature death among veterans. The purpose of this systematic review was to characterize the body of literature on veteran firearm suicide and identify areas for future research, which may facilitate the development of firearm suicide interventions in Veterans Health Administration (VHA) and non-Veterans Health Administration clinical settings. All randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental, naturalistic, observational, and case study designs published between January 1, 1990 and February 21, 2019 were included in our review. Following title and abstract review, 65 papers were included in our full-text review and 37 studies were included in our analysis. We based our approach on a modification of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis guidelines. Studies were grouped into broad, nonmutually exclusive categories: (1) heterogeneity of datasets and veteran status determination for inclusion, (2) service histories, (3) firearm ownership, storage, behaviors, and risk perceptions, (4) patient and clinician attitudes toward firearm restriction interventions, (5) firearm suicide risk factors by study population, and (6) assessments of clinical firearm interventions. This body of literature consists predominately of cross-sectional studies with mixed definitions and validation of veteran status, which revealed high concordance of increased risk of firearm suicide compared with nonveterans. Veterans have higher rates of firearm ownership than the general population, primarily citing personal protection as the reason for gun ownership. Veterans often exhibit risky firearm usage and storage behaviors but tend to favor measures that limit access to firearms by at-risk individuals. Despite this, there remains persistent hesitation among clinicians to screen and counsel veterans on firearm safety. This systematic review highlights an urgent need to produce higher quality evidence and new data with standard definitions that are critical to inform clinical practice and enhance public health measures to reduce firearm suicide among veterans.

Improving the quality of healthcare has proven to be a challenging task despite longstanding efforts. Approaches to improvements that consider the strong influence of local context as well as stakeholders' differing views on the situation are warranted. Soft systems methodology (SSM) includes contextual and multi-perspectival features. However, the way SSM has been applied and the outcomes of using SSM to stimulate productive change in healthcare have not been sufficiently investigated. This scoping review aimed to examine and map the use and outcomes of SSM in healthcare settings. The review was based on Arksey and O'Malley's framework. We searched six academic databases to January 2019 for peer-reviewed journal articles in English. We also reviewed reference lists of included citations. Articles were included if they were empirical studies focused on the application of SSM in a healthcare setting. Two reviewers conducted the abstract review and one reviewer conducted the full-text review and extracted data on study characteristics, ways of applying SSM and the outcomes of SSM initiatives. Study quality was assessed using Hawker's Quality Assessment Tool. A total of 49 studies were included in the final review. SSM had been used in a range of healthcare settings and for a variety of problem situations. The results revealed an inconsistent use of SSM including departing from Checkland's original vision, applying different tools and involving stakeholders idiosyncratically. The quality of included studies varied and reporting of how SSM had been applied was sometimes inadequate. SSM had most often been used to understand a problem situation and to suggest potential improvements to the situation but to a lesser extent to implement and evaluate these improvements. SSM is flexible and applicable to a range of problem situations in healthcare settings. However, better reporting of how SSM has been applied as well as evaluation of different types of outcomes, including implementation and intervention outcomes, is needed in order to appreciate more fully the utility and contribution of SSM in healthcare.

Adolescent dating violence negatively affects millions of young people worldwide. Through a global systematic review, we synthesised evidence from rigorous studies of prevention programmes for adolescent dating violence. Our aims were to: (1) describe the breadth of research in this area and evidence of programme effects, and (2) identify gaps in the evidence base. We included experimental and controlled quasi-experimental programme evaluations, published before Jan 1, 2020, that assessed effects on victimisation or perpetration, or both, in adolescent dating violence and in which at least half of the study population was 10-19 years old. Study design, programme elements, and outcomes were compared between evaluations implemented in high-income countries (HICs) and low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). 52 evaluations met inclusion criteria, of which 20 (38%) were implemented in LMICs. Evaluations in HICs were more likely to assess effects on adolescent dating violence victimisation and perpetration, rather than just victimisation, than those in LMICs, and they were also more likely to include boys and girls, as opposed to just a single sex. Overall, 26 (50%) of the 52 evaluations reported a significant preventive effect on at least one outcome for adolescent dating violence, of which nine were implemented in LMICs. Across LMICs and HICs, findings suggest research is needed to shed light on how adolescent dating violence prevention programmes work and to identify whether programme effects generalise across different settings, outcomes, and subgroups. TRANSLATIONS: For the Chinese, French and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

Adolescent girls face elevated risks of gender-based violence in humanitarian settings because of the intersectionality of age and gender, and the additional and exacerbated risk factors relevant to emergencies. Because there is no clear division of labour between the gender-based violence and child protection sectors, adolescent girls are often neglected by both groups, and violence against this subpopulation goes unaddressed. This Review presents an adapted ecological framework for gender-based violence risks facing adolescent girls in emergencies, synthesises the scant evidence for gender-based violence prevention and response, and identifies barriers to effective and ethical measurement and evaluation of programme effectiveness. Although nascent evidence highlights promising interventions for transforming girls' attitudes about violence and gender inequity and improving psychosocial and mental wellbeing, little evidence supports the ability of existing approaches to reduce gender-based violence incidence. A more explicit focus on adolescent girls is needed when designing and evaluating interventions to ensure global efforts to end gender-based violence are inclusive of this population. TRANSLATIONS: For the Arabic, French and Spanish translations of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section.

To assess the reliability of peer review of abstracts submitted to academic family medicine meetings in North America. We analyzed reviewer ratings of abstracts submitted: 1) as oral presentations to the North American Primary Care Research Group (NAPCRG) meeting from 2016 to 2019, as well as 2019 poster session or workshop submissions; and 2) in 12 categories to the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine (STFM) Spring 2018 meeting. In each category and year, we used a multi-level mixed model to estimate the abstract-level intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and the reliability of initial review (using the abstract-level ICC and the number of reviewers per abstract). We analyzed review data for 1554 NAPCRG oral presentation abstracts, 418 NAPCRG poster or workshop abstracts, and 1145 STFM abstracts. Across all years, abstract-level ICCs for NAPCRG oral presentations were below 0.20 (range, 0.10 in 2019 to 0.18 in 2016) and were even lower for posters and workshops (range, 0.00-0.10). After accounting for the number of reviewers per abstract, reliabilities of initial review for NAPCRG oral presentations ranged from 0.24 in 2019 to 0.30 in 2016 and 0.00 to 0.18 for posters and workshops in 2019. Across 12 STFM submission categories, the median abstract-level ICC was 0.21 (range, 0.12-0.50) and the median reliability was 0.42 (range, 0.25-0.78). For abstracts submitted to North American academic family medicine meetings, inter-reviewer agreement is often low, compromising initial review reliability. For many submission categories, program committees should supplement initial review with independent postreview assessments.

This paper explores how wellbeing is cultivated inside of domestic bomb shelters on Israel's contested and heavily militarised northern borders with Lebanon and Syria. It draws from ethnographic research conducted during what is locally referred to as being a time between wars, or a 'period of quiet', in the ongoing regional conflicts affecting these borders. Contrasting the upkeep and organisation of shelters situated in two private homes on the same street, the paper explores how shelters are used to foster a localised sense of wellbeing in a time of 'quiet', as well as who is seen to demonstrate wellbeing in this context. Each shelter is a place where the temporal position of being between past and future war is visceral. Memories of past wars, present uncertainty and the anticipated threats of future war are easily encountered in each shelter, although in varied ways. Yet, the arrangement of each shelter reflects how their owners make sense of the time they understand themselves to inhabit, while allowing them to re-organise and edit out what is problematic, uncomfortable or threatening about dwelling in a present between wars. A sense of wellbeing comes from the thoughtful, creative and aspirational ordering of past, present and future inside of each shelter, and through an ordering of one's position in time. These observations contribute to the broader conceptualisation and pragmatic study of wellbeing, a term that is often illusive and abstract.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Established research from the United States and other Western countries has found that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) populations are at an elevated risk for suicide. Suicidality among LGBT individuals is understudied in Thailand and other Asian countries, warranting additional research to better understand risk factors and to create effective treatment and suicide prevention interventions. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The study examined rates and predictors of suicidality in Thai LGBT adults. Study findings suggest that general (e.g. stress and loneliness) and minority stressors (e.g. discrimination and victimization) played important roles in predicting lifetime and past-year suicidal ideation, while socio-demographic and health-related factors (e.g. living in high poverty area and having chronic diseases) were associated with suicide attempts among LGBT individuals. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Changes in the nursing curriculum and continuing education resources are needed to improve knowledge and core competencies in the mental health and treatment needs of LGBT individuals in Thailand. Among LGBT serving practitioners, routine assessment of suicidality is needed to increase the early identification and treatment of individual at risk for suicidal behaviours. Standardized measures of sexual orientation and gender identity should be included in all patient intake forms. In conducting research on strategies to improve mental health outcomes among LGBT populations, standardized measures of sexual orientation/gender identity and minority-specific stressors should be used. Suicide prevention interventions aimed at reducing general and minority stress among LGBT populations should be a priority in mental health nursing. INTRODUCTION: A large and rigorous body of research in the United States has demonstrated that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) populations are at an elevated risk for suicide. However, scant research aimed at understanding the rates and predictors for suicidality among Thai LGBT individuals exists. To examine rates and predictors of suicidality among Thai LGBT adults (N = 411). Data collection was conducted via online and in-person surveys. Guided by the Minority Stress Model, standardized measures of demographics, health-related factors, general and minority-specific stressors and suicidality were completed. Thirty-nine per cent of participants reported lifetime suicidal ideation, 19.0% past 12-month suicidal ideation and 13.1% lifetime suicide attempts. Lifetime suicidal ideation was associated with higher levels of social discrimination, stress, loneliness and chronic disease (OR = 1.12, 1.16, 2.75, and 1.46, p ≤ .05, R General and minority-specific stressors negatively impacted suicidality among LGBT participants. Study findings have implications for nursing education, practice and research. Nursing education should include information about the influence of sexual orientation and gender identity on mental health outcomes. Further, systematic screening for suicidality should be conducted by LGBT serving psychiatric and mental health nurses. Finally, research is needed to determine best practices for interventions aimed at reducing suicidality risk among LGBT individuals.

Trillions of dollars pass to physicians from industry-related businesses annually, leading to many opportunities for financial conflicts of interest. The Open Payments Database (OPD) was created to ensure transparency. We describe the industry relationships as reported in the OPD for presenters at the 2019 Society of Gynecologic Oncology (SGO) Annual Meeting and evaluate concordance between author disclosures of their financial interests and information provided by the OPD. This is an observational, cross-sectional study. Disclosure data were collected from authors with oral and featured abstract presentations in the 2019 SGO annual conference. These disclosures were compared to data available for each author in the 2018 OPD, which included the amount and nature of industry payments. We examined the disclosures of 301 authors who met inclusion criteria. Of 161 authors who had disclosure statements on their presentations,147 reported "no disclosures," and 14 disclosed industry relationships. The remaining 140 did not list any disclosure information. Sixty percent (184/301) of authors had industry relationships in the 2018 OPD, including 173 of 287 (60.3%) of authors who either reported no disclosures or did not have disclosure data available in their presentations. These transactions totaled over 43 million USD from 122 different companies, with most payments (46%) categorized as "Research or Associated Research." Accurate disclosure reporting was associated with receiving higher payments or research payments, and being a presenting author. Most authors at the SGO annual conference did not correctly disclose their industry relationships when compared with their entries in the OPD.

In the present study, occurrence of arsenic (As) and lead (Pb) is reported in rural and urban household dust (floor and AC filter dust) of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). Several studies have found concerning concentrations of these toxic metals in indoor dust from different countries, but data from this region is missing. The association between studied toxic metals and different socioeconomic parameters was investigated. Furthermore, health risk associated with these toxic metals via dust exposure was evaluated for the Saudi population. Mean concentration of Pb was several times higher than As in both types of dust samples. AC filter dust was more contaminated with these metals than floor dust. Levels of Pb were up to 775 ppm in AC filter dust from urban areas, while 167 ppm in rural AC filter dust. Different socioeconomic parameters did not influence much on the presence of studied metals in both AC and floor dust. To estimate health risk from contaminated dust hazardous index (HI), hazardous quotient (HQ), and incremental lifetime cancer risk (ILCR) via dust ingestion, inhalation, and dermal contact was calculate using USEPA equations. The ILCR range for both toxic metals was within the tolerable range of reference values of USEPA (1 × 10

Quality measurement in psychodynamic psychotherapy: Diagnosis-specific courses, the influence of different informants, and their view of moderators of change 

Bullying experiences in outpatients of a child and adolescent psychotherapy centre - A particularly vulnerable group? 

Critical literatures, and public discourses, on public health policies and practices often present fixated concerns with paternalism. In this paper, rather than focus on the question of whether and why intended instances of paternalistic policy might be justified, we look to the wider, real-world socio-political contexts against which normative evaluations of public health must take place. We explain how evaluative critiques of public health policy and practice must be sensitive to the nuance and complexity of policy contexts. This includes sensitivity to the 'imperfect' reach and application of policy, leading to collateral effects including collateral paternalism. We argue that theoretical critiques must temper their demandingness to real-world applicability, allowing for the detail of social and policy contexts, including harm reduction: apparent knock-down objections of paternalism cannot hold if they are limited to an abstract or artificially-isolated evaluation of the reach of a public health intervention.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: PhotoVoice as a participatory methodology has been used within mental health to support marginalized communities in addressing the challenges they encounter. The PhotoVoice methodology aims to encourage and foster collaborative and equal partnerships. However, reports of previous projects highlight that not every stage of the process remains participant-centric. There is limited reporting on participant involvement in the latter stages of projects, such as exhibition design. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: It provides a detailed description of the phases involved in planning and executing a mental health PhotoVoice project. It provides an illustration of how collaborative partnerships can extend into the design and construction of a photography exhibition and its narrative. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: PhotoVoice is an ideal methodology for use within the field of mental health nursing as it promotes service user inclusion in research, places value on lived experiences and provides a creative medium through which service users and family members can advocate for themselves and others. PhotoVoice is an effective and creative methodology for disseminating and communicating both the individual and collective outcomes to the general public. When implementing this methodology, clinicians and researchers need to be cognisant of the necessity to include participants as equal partners at every stage, including in the design of photography exhibitions and disseminating the findings to academic and public audiences. ABSTRACT: Introduction PhotoVoice is a participatory methodology in which marginalized communities represent their lived experiences through photography. While the methodology aims to foster partnerships throughout all phases, the literature suggests that in the field of mental health, some phases are often completed without participant involvement. Aims This paper elaborates on how the PhotoVoice method was used to engage service users and family members around their experience of involvement in a co-produced and co-facilitated mental health education intervention, in order to enhance public and policymakers knowledge of the project. Methods Ten participants were recruited and trained in the PhotoVoice method. Participants documented, through photography, their experiences of involvement in the education intervention. Following this, participants came together to co-produce and disseminate the photography exhibition to the public. Results PhotoVoice proved to be a flexible and creative method by which to include marginalized groups. By adhering to the collaborative principles of the methodology, service users and family members can retain decision-making power from the project's inception to its conclusion. Implications for Practice PhotoVoice is ideal for use within mental health nursing as it coincides with the recovery principle of promoting collaborative partnership between service users, family members and clinicians. Mental health nurses work directly with service users and family members throughout their recovery journey. The PhotoVoice methodology is coherent with the recovery principles of empowerment, collaboration and prioritizing the lived experiences of the individual. As such, this methodology has the potential to enhance greatly what mental health nurses can know and understand about the lived experiences of service users and family members. In turn, engaging with the PhotoVoice methodology can provide a platform from which further collaborative engagement between service users, family members and clinicians can take place.

Academic productivity during cardiothoracic surgery residency training is an important program metric, but is highly variable due to multiple factors. This study evaluated the influence of implementing a protocol to increase resident physicians' academic productivity in cardiac surgery. A comprehensive protocol for cardiac surgery was implemented at our institution that included active pairing of residents with academically productive faculty, regular research meetings, centralized data storage and analysis with a core team of biostatisticians, a formal peer-review protocol for analytic requests, and project prioritization and feedback. We compared cardiothoracic surgery residents' academic productivity before implementation (July 2015-June 2017) versus after implementation (July 2017-June 2019). Academic productivity was measured by peer-reviewed articles, abstract presentations (oral or poster) at national cardiothoracic surgery meetings, and textbook chapters. Thirty-four resident physicians (from traditional and integrated programs) trained at our institution during the study. A total of 122 peer-reviewed articles were produced over the course of the study: 74 (60.7%) cardiac- and 48 (39.3%) thoracic-focused. The number of cardiac-focused resident-produced articles increased from 10 preimplementation to 64 postimplementation (0.61 vs 2.03 articles per resident; P < .01). Abstract oral or poster presentations also increased, from 11 to 40 (0.61 vs 1.33 abstracts per resident; P = .01). Textbook chapters increased from 4 to 15 following the intervention (0.22 vs 0.5 chapters per resident; P = .01). Implementation of a dedicated protocol to facilitate faculty mentoring of resident research and streamline the data access, analysis, and publication process substantially improved cardiothoracic surgery residents' academic productivity.

A participatory approach to co-creating new knowledge in health research has gained significant momentum in recent decades. This is founded on the described benefits of community-based participatory research (CBPR), such as increased relevance of research for those who must act on its findings. This has prompted researchers to better understand how CBPR functions to achieve these benefits through building sustainable research partnerships. Several studies have identified 'trust' as a key mechanism to achieve sustainable partnerships, which themselves constitute social networks. Although existing literature discuss trust and CBPR, or trust and social networks, preliminary searches reveal that none link all three concepts of trust, CBPR and social networks. Thus, we present our scoping review protocol to systematically review and synthesise the literature exploring how trust is conceptualised, operationalised and measured in CBPR and social networks. This protocol follows guidelines from Levac  Ethics is not required for this review specifically. It is a component of a larger study that received ethical approval from the University of Limerick research ethics committee (#2018_05_12_EHS). Translation of results to key domains is integrated through active collaboration of stakeholders from community, health services and academic sectors. Findings will be disseminated through academic conferences, and peer review publications targeting public and patient involvement in health research.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Only a small number of adolescents with suicidal behaviour receives any follow-up treatment. The implementation of recurrent behaviour prevention strategies is crucial in the period following suicide attempts and should take into account adolescents' opinions to be effective and congruent. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper shows that the 33 adolescent participants in the study identified the following protective factors of recurrent suicidal behaviour: family, friends and other trusted persons, as well as the self and newly learned strategies. The adolescents described their family as a constant presence and reported wishing that their parents maintain their current family support. Psychological support, health professionals and occupational activities are what the adolescents value most about hospitalization, and some criticisms are related to the environment, activities and health professionals. The adolescents also emphasize the need to maintain contact with the nurses after hospital discharge and make suggestions for service improvement related to the environment and the interventions implemented. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Knowing the protective factors of recurrent suicidal behaviours, perception of the impact of the intervention, the expectation of future support and healthcare follow-up is crucial for adapting suicide prevention strategies to be put in place by health services for better quality care delivery. The results obtained allow us to define as specific implications the implementation of psychoeducational intervention directed at the adolescent's family with suicidal behaviour during hospitalization and the definition of strategies for maintaining contact and follow-up with the adolescent after discharge. This study emphasizes the need to reinforce training in suicidology for all health professionals for the improvement of clinical practice. INTRODUCTION: The prevention of recurrent suicidal behaviours in adolescents should consider their perceptions, needs and expectations. To identify the protective factors of recurrent suicidal behaviours in adolescents; To describe the family and the expectations for future involvement; To know the most important aspects of hospitalization and discuss expectations of nursing care follow-up after hospital discharge. A descriptive, qualitative and exploratory study was carried out in a sample of 33 adolescents with suicidal behaviours. Data were collected through semi-structured interviews, and the data processing used the content analysis technique. Findings arising from data allowed identifying the protective factors: family, friends and other trusted persons. During the hospitalization, the adolescents reinforce the knowledge about themselves and the newly learnt coping strategies. Psychological support and health professionals are what they value most about hospitalization and emphasize the need to maintain contact with the nurses after discharge. Knowing the needs and expectations of adolescents with suicidal behaviour will make nursing psychotherapeutic interventions more effective and congruent in this vulnerable group. Ensuring psychoeducational intervention to the families of adolescents with suicidal behaviour and continuity of care after discharge, and reinforcing the training in suicidology for all health professionals.

Human activities have strongly influenced nitrogen loads; thus, the accurate evaluation of net anthropogenic nitrogen input (NANI) is very important for developing countermeasures to control N pollution. The spatiotemporal distribution and main components of NANI at the city scale in Hubei Province in 2008-2018 were analyzed using the NANI model. Furthermore, the relationships between NANI and socioeconomic factors, namely, the gross industrial output value per unit area (GIOV), gross agricultural output value per unit area (GAOV), grain yield per unit area (GY), fertilizer consumption density (FCD), population density (PD), and cultivated land area per unit area (CLA), were further analyzed. The results show that NANI in Hubei tended to increase from 14,422.66 kg km

The Importance of Critical Life Events During Childhood for the Mental Health of Adolescents - Results of a 10-Year Catamnesis 

The primary purpose of this paper is to identify and review studies evaluating the effectiveness of programs to increase access to trails and trails use (physical activity) among youth from under-resourced communities. Three additional goals include identifying: (1) Correlates of physical activity/trail use and features of transportation systems and/or built environment and land use destinations, that may inform and support the planning and implementation of programs to promote trail use among youth, (2) benefits associated with trail use, and (3) barriers to trail use. Under-resourced communities are defined as those lacking sufficient resources (i.e., under-funded). A review of the literature was conducted to identify, abstract, and evaluate studies related to programs to promote trail use among youth and youth from under-resourced communities. In anticipation of very few studies being published about this topic, studies were also reviewed to identify correlates of transportation systems and built environment and land use destinations related to increases in physical activity, and benefits of, and barriers to trail use. PUBMED, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Sportdiscus, Annual Reviews, American Trails, and Google Scholar databases were searched using terms including trails, built environment, physical activity, exercise, walking, children, adolescents, and youth to identify studies that potentially related to the purposes for conducting this review. Review methods identified, 5278 studies based on our search terms. A review of study titles, abstracts, and select full article screens determined that 5049 studies did not meet the study inclusion criteria, leaving 221 studies included in this review. No studies were located that evaluated programs designed to promote and increase trail use among youth, including youth from under-resourced communities. Eight studies used longitudinal or quasi-experimental designs to evaluate physical activity and neighborhood characteristics prospectively among adolescent girls ( Scientific evidence in support of addressing the underrepresentation of trail use by youth from under-resourced communities is lacking. However, there is a related body of evidence that may inform how to develop programs that support trail use by youth from under-resourced areas. Dedicated, deliberate, and systematic efforts will be required to address research and knowledge gaps, and to evaluate programs and practice related to trail use among youth from low income, often racially or ethnically diverse under-resourced neighborhoods or communities.

Between Heaven and Hell: Experiences of parents with a critically ill child with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) - A qualitative-explorative study with couple interviews 

Children at risk for neglect or abuse are vulnerable to delays in inhibitory control development. Prior findings suggest that early parenting interventions that target parental sensitivity and responsiveness during infancy can improve executive function outcomes of high-risk children during preschool years; however, little is known about how persistent these gains are through middle childhood. Participants included 76 CPS-involved children who were randomly assigned to either the ABC intervention (N = 32) or the Developmental Education for Families (DEF) control intervention (N = 44), and 53 low-risk children. Children completed the Stop Signal Reaction Time (SSRT) paradigm at ages 8 and 10. Intervention group predicted performance on the SSRT at age 8 such that children who received the ABC intervention and children in the low-risk group performed significantly better than children who received the DEF intervention (ABC vs. DEF: Cohen's d = 0.92; low-risk group vs. DEF: d = 0.56). The performances of the ABC and the low-risk groups were not statistically different. There were no significant group differences in SSRT performance at age 10. These findings demonstrate that the ABC intervention has long-term beneficial effects on inhibitory control development in children with a history of early caregiving adversity. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/P9oLyfo7pYA.

To estimate the effect of an intervention compared to the usual peer-review process on reducing spin in the abstract's conclusion of biomedical study reports. We conducted a two-arm, parallel-group RCT in a sample of primary research manuscripts submitted to BMJ Open. The authors received short instructions alongside the peer reviewers' comments in the intervention group. We assessed the presence of spin (primary outcome), types of spin, and wording change in the revised abstract's conclusion. Outcome assessors were blinded to the intervention assignment. Of the 184 manuscripts randomized, 108 (54 intervention, 54 control) were selected for revision and could be evaluated for the presence of spin. The proportion of manuscripts with spin was 6% lower (95% CI: 24% lower to 13% higher) in the intervention group (57%, 31/54) than in the control group (63%, 34/54). The wording of the revised abstract's conclusion was changed in 34/54 (63%) manuscripts in the intervention group and 26/54 (48%) in the control group. The four prespecified types of spin involved (i) selective reporting (12 in the intervention group vs. 8 in the control group), (ii) including information not supported by evidence (9 vs. 9), and (iii) interpretation not consistent with the study results (14 vs. 18), and (iv) unjustified recommendations for practice (5 vs. 11). These short instructions to authors did not have a statistically significant effect on reducing spin in revised abstract conclusions, and based on the confidence interval, the existence of a large effect can be excluded. Other interventions to reduce spin in reports of original research should be evaluated. osf.io/xnuyt.

Implementing non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) protect the public from COVID-19. However, the impact of NPIs has been inconsistent and remains unclear. This study, therefore, aims to measure the impact of major NPIs (social distancing, social isolation and quarantine) on reducing COVID-19 transmission. We will conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis research of both randomised and non-randomised controlled trials. We will undertake a systematic search of: MEDLINE, Embase, Allied & Complementary Medicine, COVID-19 Research, WHO database on COVID-19, ClinicalTrails.Gov for clinical trials on COVID-19, Cochrane Resources on Coronavirus (COVID-19), Oxford COVID-19 Evidence Service and Google Scholar for published and unpublished literatures on COVID-19 including preprint engines such as medRxiv, bioRxiv, Litcovid and SSRN for unpublished studies on COVID-19 and will be reported in accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses. Outcomes of interest for impact analysis will include the reduction of COVID-19 transmission, avoiding crowds and restricting movement, isolating ill and psychological impacts. The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols checklist has been used for this protocol. For quality of included studies, we will use the Cochrane Collaboration's tool for assessing risk of bias for randomised controlled trials and the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for observational studies. The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation approach will grade the certainty of the evidence for all outcome measures across studies. Random-effects model for meta-analysis will measure the effect size of NPIs or the strengths of relationships. For quantitative data, risk ratio or OR, absolute risk difference (for dichotomous outcome data), or mean difference or standardised mean difference (for continuous data) and their 95% CIs will be calculated. Where statistical pooling is not possible, a narrative synthesis will be conducted for the included studies. To assess the heterogeneity of effects, I Formal ethical approval from an institutional review board or research ethics committee is not required as primary data will not be collected. The final results of this study will be published in an open-access peer-reviewed journal, and abstract will be presented at suitable national/international conferences or workshops. We will also share important information with public health authorities as well as with the WHO. In addition, we may post the submitted manuscript under review to medRxiv, or other relevant preprint servers. CRD42020207338.

Stroke is the leading cause of disability in the United States. Two-thirds of stroke survivors will require caregiver assistance. Evidence suggests the mental health of caregivers is closely related to patients' health outcomes. The timing of this study intersected with the beginning of the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) pandemic that required strict social distancing and hospital visitor policy changes. This study aims to answer the primary research question: What is the level and nature of stress experienced by caregivers of persons with newly-acquired stroke in the inpatient rehabilitation setting and how has the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the caregiver experience? Recruitment occurred from a single inpatient rehabilitation facility. Participants were administered the Perceived Stress Scale and then completed qualitative semistructured interviews. The investigators used a phenomenological, iterative approach to collect and analyze qualitative data. The data were independently coded and categorized before consolidated into primary themes and subthemes. Eleven informal caregivers' perspectives generated 13 subthemes across 4 primary thematic categories: COVID-19 impact, concerns of the caregiver, coping strategies, and important aspects of the caregiver experience. COVID-19 social distancing necessitated new visitor policies, which presented additional challenges for caregivers. Caregiver attendance at therapy sessions and frequent, direct communication between staff and caregivers improved caregiver readiness for family member discharge following inpatient rehabilitation. This study shared perspectives from a distinctive time during the COVID-19 pandemic. If visitation for multiple therapy sessions is prohibited, we recommend taking alternative measures to keep the caregiver involved in the plan of care.Video Abstract available for more insights from the authors (see the Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at: http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A326).

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Sexual minority individuals are more likely to experience depressive disorders than heterosexual individuals. Factors associated with depressive symptoms among sexual minority individuals have been explored and examined; however, there is a limited evidence to understand the factors among sexual minority women in non-western countries. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: To the best our knowledge, this is the first study examining internalized homophobia, self-esteem, social support and depressive symptoms among sexual minority women in Taiwan. Sexual minority women at risk of having depressive symptoms had a higher level of internalized homophobia, lower self-esteem and fewer support from partners, friends, and families. Specifically, being single, being a student and having a higher personal income increased the risk of having depressive symptoms among sexual minority women. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health practitioners and nurses should be aware of and assess sexual minority women's level of internalized homophobia, self-esteem, and received social support to reduce the risk of depressive symptoms and thus help prevent suicidal ideation. LGBT sex education and government involvement are essential to buffer the negative influences of a homophobic society on the mental health of sexual minority women. ABSTRACT: Introduction Sexual minority women are more likely to report depressive symptoms than sexual minority men. However, there is a lack of evidence to understand factors associated with depressive symptoms among sexual minority women in non-western countries. Aim This study examined internalized homophobia, self-esteem, social support and depressive symptoms among Taiwanese sexual minority women. Method A total of 581 Taiwanese sexual minority women (Age range 20-48 years old, Mean 26.96, SD 5.718) completed an online survey. Results Taiwanese sexual minority women at risk of having depressive symptoms had a higher level of internalized homophobia and lower self-esteem. Perceived support from participants' partners, friends and families was related to lower risk of depressive symptoms. Being single, being a student and having a higher personal income were also found to increase the risk of having depressive symptoms among the women. Discussion Mental health interventions are essential for sexual minority women with internalized homophobia and low self-esteem. Implications for Practice Mental health practitioners and nurses should be aware of and assess the concerns that sexual minority women have regarding healthcare services and provide culturally competent care to reduce the risk of depressive symptoms.

In recent years, several new medications for the treatment of type 2 diabetes have been released and some evidence indicates sociodemographic disparity in their utilisation. We sought to investigate sociodemographic disparities in receipt of diabetes medications across Australia. This study included 1,203,317 people with type 2 diabetes registered on the Australian National Diabetes Services Scheme (NDSS) followed from 2007 to 2015. The NDSS was linked to the Australian pharmaceutical claims database. We investigated trends in diabetes medication dispensing and variation in dispensing by sociodemographic strata. Compared with individuals in the least disadvantaged areas, those in the most disadvantaged quintile were less likely to receive dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP4is), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) and sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2is) in the first year of availability (OR [95% CI] for most vs least disadvantaged: 0.78 [0.75, 0.82], 0.65 [0.60, 0.71] and 0.89 [0.84, 0.95], respectively). These disparities dissipated over time for DPP4is and SGLT2is but remained significant for GLP-1RAs. The OR (95% CI) of receiving DPP4is, GLP-1RAs and SGLT2is in the first year of availability for people in remote areas vs major cities was 0.46 (0.39, 0.54), 0.46 (0.35, 0.61) and 0.71 (0.59, 0.84), respectively. These disparities remained significant through to 2015. People with diabetes in more disadvantaged areas are less likely to receive newer diabetes medications, although this effect decreased over time. However, there are considerable and persistent differences in receipt of newer diabetes medications between major cities and remote areas of Australia. Graphical abstract.

Challenges and needs of families of newborns with congenital diaphragmatic hernia - Music therapy as a supportive intervention? 

To evaluate unlicensed and off-label prescription and use of drugs to children in primary health care. This is a systematic review that was written based on Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA). The studies were extracted from the databases: LILACS, PubMed/MEDLINE, and Scopus. Studies in English, Spanish or Portuguese with abstract available regarding the use and prescription of off-label and unlicensed drugs to children aged 0-18 years in primary health care were included. The evaluation of the titles, abstracts and Full-text were performed independently by two reviewers, and the divergences were resolved by a third reviewer. Six studies were included. The incidence of off-label prescription varied from 29.5% to 51.7% in relation to the total number of drugs prescribed. The prevalence of off-label drugs ranged from 31.7% to 93.5% in relation to the total number of drugs prescribed. It was observed a higher proportion of off-label prescription related to age and dose. For unlicensed drugs, there was a small variation in incidence between 2.4% and 3.9%, relative to the total number of prescriptions, or between 2.4% and 10.0%, relative to the sample size. It was observed a higher proportion of unlicensed prescription related to children under 2 years of age. The unlicensed and off-label prescription of drugs is recurring in the pediatric population of primary health care. It is necessary to have better information on these drugs by the regulatory agencies and the pharmaceutical industries for rational use of drugs in children.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Dementia affects an increasing number of people and a person with dementia requires significant levels of care. Dementia care is often delivered by family members. Caring for someone with dementia places significant demand on the carer and support for the carer is often needed. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Research has been conducted into caregivers' experiences of caring for someone with dementia, but a synthesis of findings for studies from the UK is needed to collate the research evidence and provide an account of the common trends within the existing research. This paper adds to existing knowledge by highlighting the key difficulties experienced by carers of a person with dementia in their caring role and their experiences with support services across the existing research evidence. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Improvements to the process of dementia assessment and the process of receiving a dementia diagnosis are needed. Information and support needs to be more accessible for the carer of a person with dementia Cultural differences need to be acknowledged in the support and information offered to carers of a person with dementia. ABSTRACT: Aim To understand the experiences of informal carers' of individuals with dementia in the UK when engaging with services for support in their caring role. Methods Following the PRISMA guidelines, a qualitative systematic literature review was carried out. Six Internet databases were searched. Results were screened, and eligible studies were appraised using Critical Appraisal Skills Programme (CASP, 2019) and data synthesized using Evan & Pearson (2001) and Evans (2002). Results The search returned 231 records, 11 were selected for critical appraisal and data synthesis. Four main themes (information for carers, process of diagnosing dementia, difficulties accessing support and cultural differences of experiences of services) were extracted. Discussion Carers experience services as providing inadequate support for the Person with Dementia (PwD) and themselves for support relating to dementia. Difficulties in receiving information and support were experienced from before diagnosis to end-of-life (EoL) care. Additionally, cultural differences were found in carers' experiences. Implications for practice The provision of and access to dementia support should be improved; more information for carers about dementia and dementia services is needed; cultural differences need to be appreciated in the support and information offered.

Food insecurity, or limited access to nutritious foods, is a significant public health concern especially among vulnerable populations including infants and young children in low-income households. While literature to date has thoroughly examined the psychological and behavioral impacts of food insecurity on children, no known study to date has specifically synthesized the literature exploring the relationship between food insecurity and physiological health outcomes during early childhood. The purpose of this study was to review the literature on physiological health outcomes associated with food insecurity during early childhood among children aged 0-5 years in developed countries. Our literature search sources included PubMed, PsycInfo, CINAHL, and Embase databases. A total of 657 articles published up to September 2019 were reviewed for eligibility by two coders, with a third reviewer in cases of disagreement. Eighty-three articles remained after screening by abstract, with a final 27 studies ultimately included in the final synthesis. This review is registered with PROSPERO and adhered to PRISMA guidelines. In total, 20 articles (74%) noted significant relationships between food insecurity and physiological health outcomes in young children. Findings included an association with overweight or obesity (n = 9), anemia (n = 3), poor child health (n = 3), low birth weight (n = 3), chronic illness (n = 1), special health care needs (n = 1), and increased cortisol (n = 1), in young children who experience food insecurity. Identifying relationships between food insecurity and health outcomes during early childhood has the potential to inform future prevention interventions to reduce health disparities in these vulnerable populations.

To improve maternal health outcomes, highly competent healthcare providers are needed. One strategy used to improve performance among healthcare providers is simulation-based learning. An integrative review was designed with the aim of synthesising available research on Helping Mothers Survive (HMS), a learning programme used in low-income countries, and its impact on care provider skills and maternal health outcomes. A systematic search was conducted in June 2020 in CINAHL, PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. All stages of inclusion, quality assessment, and data extraction were done independently by four reviewers. A narrative synthesis was used for the outcomes of care provider skills and knowledge, as well as maternal health outcomes. The search identified 50 articles, 22 of which were excluded due to being duplicates, 16 based on their title and abstract, and two based on their full text. Eleven papers were included in the synthesis: eight quantitative, two qualitative, and one mixed-method study, originating from India, Malawi, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zanzibar. The Helping Mothers Survive-Bleeding After Birth (HMS-BAB) learning programme was found to have a positive impact on care providers' competencies and maternal health outcomes, with a reduced number of postpartum haemorrhages and a reduction in maternal mortality. The HMS-BAB learning programme has the potential to increase competence among care providers and improve maternal health outcomes in low-income settings. A successful use of the programme to maintain improved care routines for mothers requires multi-professional teams, facility readiness, a low-dose high-frequency approach, a local coordinator, and accountability and ownership.

Childhood cancer outcomes in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) lag behind those in high-income countries (HICs), in part due to late presentation and diagnosis. Though several interventions targeting early detection of childhood cancer have been implemented in LMICs, little is known about their efficacy. We conducted a systematic review to identify studies describing such interventions. We searched multiple databases from inception to December 4, 2019. Studies were included if they reported on LMIC interventions focused on: (a) training of health care providers on early recognition of childhood cancer, or (ii) public awareness campaigns. We used preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines to conduct our review. The risk of bias in nonrandomized studies of interventions (ROBINS-I) checklist was used to assess quality of studies. Twelve studies met inclusion criteria (n = 5 full text, n = 7 abstract only). Five studies focused on retinoblastoma only, while the others focused on all types of childhood cancer. The majority studied multiple interventions of which early detection was one component, but reported overall outcomes. All identified studies used pre-post evaluative designs to measure efficacy. Five studies reported statistically significant results postintervention: decrease in extraocular spread of retinoblastoma, decrease in rates of refusal/abandonment of treatment, increase in number of new referrals, increase in knowledge, and an absolute increase in median 5-year survival. Other studies reported improvements without tests of statistical significance. Two studies reported no difference in survival postintervention. The ROBINS-I checklist indicated that all studies were at serious risk of bias. Though current evidence suggests that LMIC interventions targeting early detection of childhood cancer through health professional training and/or public awareness campaigns may be effective, this evidence is limited and of poor quality. Robust trials or quasi-experimental designs with long-term follow up are needed to identify the most effective interventions. Such studies will facilitate and inform the widespread uptake of early detection interventions across LMIC settings.

Following the recent European Medicine Agency (EMA) draft guideline on quality and equivalence of topical products, a modular framework for bioequivalence assessment is proposed, wherein the qualitative, quantitative, microstructure and product performance sameness is demanded to support generic applications. Strict regulatory limits are now imposed, but, the suitability of these limits has been subject of intense debate. In this context, this paper aims to address these issues by characterizing a panel of 8 reference blockbuster semisolid topical products. For each product, three batches were selected and, whenever possible, batches retrieved from different manufacturing sites were considered. Product microstructure was evaluated in terms of globule size, pH, rheological attributes and, if required, the thermal behaviour was also assessed. Performance was evaluated through in vitro release testing (IVRT). Finally, an integrated multivariate analysis was performed to highlight the features that most contribute for product variability. Marked differences were registered within reference products. Statistical analysis demonstrated that if EMA criteria are applied, none of the same product batches can be considered as equivalent. Rheological parameters as well as IVRT indicators account for the majority of batch-to-batch differences. Semisolid dosage forms exhibit intrinsic variability. This calls for the attention to the need of establishing reasonable equivalence criteria applied to generic drug products. Graphical abstract.

Rather than measure demographic factors such as socioeconomics, the aim of this study was to examine the lived experience of frequent attenders by synthesizing findings on their encounters with healthcare personnel. The Scopus, CINAHL, PsycARTICLES, and PubMed (Medline) databases were searched in May 2020 in order to screen studies by title and abstract (n = 1794) and full-text (n = 20). Findings from the included studies (n = 6) were then pooled using meta-aggregation, yielding the following results: difficulties in resolving frequent attenders' situations may create "service circles," frustrating patients with their situation; frequent attenders' own expertise regarding their condition should be recognized and valued alongside that of healthcare professionals when performing collaborative care; a lack of empathy and disparagement may make frequent attenders feel misunderstood and unappreciated; frequent attenders should be recognized as individuals by taking their circumstances into account and providing support accordingly. Frequent attenders' experiences demonstrate the importance of shared decision-making, continuity of care, and acknowledging these patients' individual circumstances. Identifying the variety of frequent attenders' service needs by synthesizing their experiences is a practical way of organizing patient-centered healthcare services.

Reports an error in "The active ingredients in a treatment for justice-involved persons with mental illness: The importance of addressing mental illness and criminal risk" by Faith Scanlon and Robert D. Morgan (

Social interactions provide a crucial context for early learning and cognitive development during infancy. Action prediction-the ability to anticipate an observed action-facilitates successful, coordinated interaction and is an important social-cognitive skill in early development. However, current knowledge about infant action prediction comes largely from screen-based laboratory tasks. We know little about what infants' action prediction skills look like during real-time, free-flowing interactions with a social partner. In the current study, we used head-mounted eyetracking to quantify 9-month-old infants' visual anticipations of their parents' actions during free-flowing parent-child play. Our findings reveal that infants do anticipate their parents' actions during dynamic interactions at rates significantly higher than would be expected by chance. In addition, the frequency with which they do so is associated with child-led joint attention and hand-eye coordination. These findings are the first to reveal infants' action prediction behaviors in a more naturalistic context than prior screen-based studies, and they support the idea that action prediction is inherently linked to motor development and plays an important role in infants' social-cognitive development. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9HrmcicfiqE.

To practise 'fairly and justly' a clinician must balance the needs of both the many and the few: the individual patient in front of them, and the many unseen patients in the waiting room, and in the county. They must consider the immediate clinical needs of those in the present, and how their actions will impact on 

Asthma is one of the most common chronic respiratory conditions in the world and is increasing in prevalence, particularly in Africa and other low-income countries. The disproportionately high numbers of premature deaths and severe or uncontrolled cases in many African countries are indicative of their inability to cope with a costly disease like asthma. Progress has, however, been made in understanding the complex and heterogeneous nature of the disease. The objective of this study will be to summarise the epidemiological literature on the nature of asthma in African countries. We registered a study protocol for a scoping review. The review was designed following the Arksey and O'Malley framework. We will search PubMed/MEDLINE, African Journals Online (AJOL) and relevant grey literature (e.g. Google Scholar, EBSCOhost) from January 1990 onwards. Only primary epidemiological studies of asthma (e.g. frequency, disease mechanisms, associated risk factors and comorbidities) written in English and conducted in Africa will be included. Two reviewers will independently screen all citations, full-text articles and abstract data. Potential conflicts will be resolved through discussion. Findings will be reported using narrative synthesis and tabulation of the summaries. This scoping review will capture the state of the current epidemiological literature on asthma in African countries. Results will be published in a peer-reviewed journal. We anticipate this review will identify gaps and make recommendations for future areas of study. Open Science Framework http://osf.io/n2p87/.

The aim of this work was to examine the relationship between family history of type 1 diabetes, birthweight, growth during the first 2 years and development of multiple beta cell autoantibodies in children with a first-degree relative with type 1 diabetes and HLA-conferred disease susceptibility. In a secondary analysis of the Trial to Reduce IDDM in the Genetically at Risk (TRIGR), clinical characteristics and development of beta cell autoantibodies were compared in relation to family history of type 1 diabetes (mother vs father vs sibling) in 2074 children from families with a single affected family member. Multiple autoantibodies (≥2 of 5 measured) developed in 277 (13%) children: 107 (10%), 114 (16%) and 56 (18%) born with a mother, father or sibling with type 1 diabetes, respectively (p < 0.001). The HR for time to multiple autoimmunity was 0.54 (95% CI 0.39, 0.75) in offspring of affected mothers (n = 107/1046, p < 0.001) and 0.81 (95% CI 0.59, 1.11) (n = 114/722, p = 0.19) in offspring of affected fathers, compared with participants with a sibling with type 1 diabetes (comparator group n = 56/306). The time to the first autoantibody present (to insulin, GAD, tyrosine phosphatase-related insulinoma-associated 2 molecules, islet cell or zinc transporter 8) was similar in the three groups. Height velocity (z score/year) in the first 24 months was independently associated with developing multiple antibodies in the total cohort (HR 1.31 [95% CI 1.01, 1.70], p = 0.04). A higher birthweight in children born to an affected mother vs affected father or an affected sibling was not related to the risk of multiple autoimmunity. The risk of developing multiple autoantibodies was lower in children with maternal type 1 diabetes. For the whole group, this risk of developing multiple autoantibodies was independent of birthweight but was greater in those with increased height velocity during the first 2 years of life. However, the risk associated with paternal type 1 diabetes was not linked to differences in birthweight or early growth. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00179777 Graphical abstract.

In response to worldwide calls for the need to support evidence-informed policy-making (EIPM), more countries are increasingly interested in enhancing their efforts to use research to inform policy-making. In order to inform the efforts of those asked to lead the support of EIPM, our aim is to develop a conceptual framework to guide the process of establishing a policy support organization (PSO). We conducted a critical interpretive synthesis (CIS). We conducted a two steps literature review. In the second step, we systematically searched OVID EMBASE, PsychInfo, HealthStar, CINAHL, Web of Science, Social Science Abstract, Health Systems Evidence, and ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global databases for documents reporting the establishment of PSOs and the contextual factors influencing the process of establishing these organizations. We assessed the eligibility of the retrieved articles and synthesized the findings iteratively. We included 52 documents in the synthesis. Our findings suggest that a PSO establishment process has four interconnected stages: awareness, development, assessment, and maturation. The process of establishing a PSO is iterative and influenced by political, research and health systems contextual factors, which determine the availability of the resources and the trust between researchers and policy-makers. The contextual factors have an impact on each other, and the challenges that arise from one factor can be mitigated by other factors. For those interested in establishing a PSO, our framework provides a road map for identifying the most appropriate starting point and the factors that might influence the establishment process. Leaders of such PSOs can use our findings to expand or refine their scope of work. Given that this framework focuses only on PSOs in the health sector, an important next step for research would be to include other sectors from social systems and identify any additional insight that can enhance our framework.

The prevalence of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) performed without fully informed prospective consent from subjects is unknown. We performed this study to estimate the prevalence of high-impact RCTs performed without informed consent from all subjects and examine whether such trials are becoming more prevalent. We performed a systematic review of English-language RCTs published from 2014 through 2018 identified in Scopus and sorted to identify the top 100 most highly cited RCTs each year. Text search of title and abstract included terms randomized controlled or clinical trial and spelling variants thereof, and excluded metaanalyses and systematic reviews. We independently identified the most highly cited RCTs based on predefined criteria and negotiated to agreement, then independently performed keyword searches, read, abstracted and coded information regarding informed consent from each paper and again negotiated to agreement. No quality indicators were assessed. We planned descriptive qualitative analysis and appropriate quantitative analysis to examine the prevalence and characteristics of trials enrolling subjects with other than fully informed prospective consent. We find that 44 (8.8%, binomial exact 95% CI 6.5% to 11.6%) of 500 high-impact RCTs did not secure informed consent from at least some subjects. The prevalence of such trials did not change over the 5 years (OR=1.09, z=0.78, p=0.44). A majority (66%) of the trials involved emergency situations, and 40 of 44 (90.9%) of the trials involved emergency interventions, pragmatic designs, were cluster randomized, or a combination of these factors. A qualitative analysis explores the methods of and justifications for waiving informed consent in our sample of RCTs.

Participation of women at national surgery conferences is an important aspect of achieving gender equity; however, participation has to be meaningful and representative of scientific and clinical achievement. We hypothesized that the presence of women on planning committees would increase the number of women speakers and the presence of women as moderators would increase the number of women panelists. Furthermore, we hypothesized that although women may be included as speakers, they are less likely to speak on clinical and technical surgical topics than men. Four 2018 national surgery conferences were chosen for investigation: Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma, Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons, Academic Surgical Conference, and the American Society of Breast Surgeons because of varied subject matter. The published online conference programs were reviewed and participant gender, presentation role, type, and topic were recorded. Submitted abstract and scientific articles were excluded from analysis; moderators of these sessions were included. Statistical analyses were performed using chi-squared tests and t-tests where appropriate. The overall mean percentage of female speakers was 28%. The percentage of women on the program committees positively correlated with the number of women speaking at the conference (Eastern Association for the Surgery of Trauma, 15.4% women on committee vs 18.92% speakers; Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons, 27% versus 22%; Academic Surgical Conference, 38.5% versus 32%; and the American Society of Breast Surgeons, 50% versus 58.55 %; P < 0.001). Panels with greater than 50% female moderators were more likely to have female panelists than those with less than 50% female moderators (23.6% versus 14.8%; P < 0.001). Women were most likely to present awards, introductions, and keynote speeches, then most likely to speak on professionalism (54.84% and 36.29%; P < 0.001). They were significantly less likely to present on a clinical topic, technical skill, or moderate a scientific presentation (25.68% and 26.75%; P < 0.001). Despite increasing attention on improving diversity at surgical conferences, disparities continue to persist. As demonstrated in nonsurgical literature, planning committee gender diversity positively correlated with speaker diversity, and moderator diversity positively correlated with panel diversity. Women were more likely to speak on topics considered "soft sciences", such as professionalism and advocacy, and less likely to present on clinical topics, technical skill, or scientific research.

Lung cancer is the most diagnosed cancer worldwide. In low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), lung cancer is often diagnosed at a late stage due to poor knowledge and awareness of its signs and symptoms. Increasing lung cancer awareness is likely to reduce the diagnosis and treatment delays. The implementation of early palliative care has also been reported to improve a patient's quality of life, and even survival. The aim of this scoping review was to map evidence on lung cancer awareness and palliative care interventions implemented in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) and other LMICs. This scoping review was guided by Arksey and O'Malley's framework. Databases such as the EBSCOhost, PubMed, Science Direct, Google Scholar, World Health Organization (WHO) library and grey literature were used to perform systematic searches of relevant articles. The methodological quality assessment of included primary studies was assessed using the Mixed Method Appraisal Tool (MMAT). NVivo version 10 software was used to perform the thematic content analysis of the included studies. A total number of screened articles was 2886, with 236 meeting the eligibility criteria and 167 further excluded following abstract screening. Sixty-nine (69) articles qualified for full-article screening and 9 were selected for detailed data extraction and methodological quality assessment. Of the included nine studies, eight described at least one lung cancer warning signs and symptoms, while one described the effectiveness of palliative care for lung cancer. Eight articles recognized the level of lung cancer knowledge, risk factors awareness of warning signs and symptoms in LMICs, mostly Africa and Asia. Most of the participants were aware of tobacco use as the major risk factor for lung cancer but lacked knowledge on the other pre-disposing risk factors. Evidence on palliative care is scarce, therefore, awareness interventions packaged with evidence on the value of timely access to palliative care services in improving the quality of life of the lung cancer patients and their families, are required.

To investigate behavioural and social characteristics of women who experienced a late stillbirth compared with women with ongoing live pregnancies at similar gestation. Case-control study. 41 maternity units in the UK. Women who had a stillbirth ≥28 weeks' gestation (n = 287) and women with an ongoing pregnancy at the time of interview (n = 714). Data were collected using an interviewer-administered questionnaire which included questions regarding women's behaviours (e.g. alcohol intake and household smoke exposure) and social characteristics (e.g. ethnicity, employment, housing). Stress was measured by the 10-item Perceived Stress Scale. Late stillbirth. Multivariable analysis adjusting for co-existing social and behavioural factors showed women living in the most deprived quintile had an increased risk of stillbirth compared with the least deprived quintile (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 3.16; 95% CI 1.47-6.77). There was an increased risk of late stillbirth associated with unemployment (aOR 2.32; 95% CI 1.00-5.38) and women who declined to answer the question about domestic abuse (aOR 4.12; 95% CI 2.49-6.81). A greater number of antenatal visits than recommended was associated with a reduction in stillbirth (aOR 0.26; 95% CI 0.16-0.42). This study demonstrates associations between late stillbirth and socio-economic deprivation, perceived stress and domestic abuse, highlighting the need for strategies to prevent stillbirth to extend beyond maternity care. Enhanced antenatal care may be able to mitigate some of the increased risk of stillbirth. Deprivation, unemployment, social stress & declining to answer about domestic abuse increase risk of #stillbirth after 28 weeks' gestation.

Based on the scholarship of abstract/concrete cognition, mental schema, and the integrated model of behavior change, this study found that using concrete over abstract language increased support for specific genetically modified (GM) applications and GM in general, and improved intentions to purchase products containing genetically modified organisms (GMOs). An online survey with an embedded 3 × 2 experiment was conducted using a national sample of U.S. adults (N = 1,470). Participants were randomly assigned to conditions that varied in abstract/concrete conceptualization of GMOs and were prompted to assess GM risk and benefit perceptions with respect to human health and the environment. Regardless of whether they assessed risks or benefits, participants who assessed GMOs through concrete terms compared to abstract terms showed an increase in positive emotions, which in turn increased their support for specific GM applications and GM in general, and their intentions to buy products with GMOs.

Maternal death surveillance in Canada relies on hospitalization data, which lacks information on the underlying cause of death. We developed a method for identifying underlying causes of maternal death, and quantified the frequency of maternal death by cause. We used data from the Discharge Abstract Database for fiscal years 2013 to 2017 to identify women who died in Canadian hospitals (excluding Quebec) while pregnant or within 1 year of the end of pregnancy. A sequential narrative based on hospital admission(s) during and after pregnancy was constituted and reviewed to assign the underlying cause of death (based on the World Health Organization's framework). Maternal deaths (i.e., while pregnant or within 42 days after the end of pregnancy) and late maternal deaths (i.e., more than 42 days to a year after the end of pregnancy) were examined separately. We identified 85 maternal deaths. Direct obstetric causes included 8 deaths (9%) related to complications of spontaneous or induced abortion; 9 (11%), to hypertensive disorders of pregnancy; 15 (18%), to obstetric hemorrhage; 11 (13%), to pregnancy-related infection; 16 (19%), to other obstetric complications; and <5 (<6%), to complications of management. There were 21 (25%) maternal deaths with indirect obstetric causes, and <5 (<6%) with undetermined causes. Of 120 late maternal deaths, 16 (13%) had direct obstetric causes, among them, 9 deaths by suicide (56%). One hundred late maternal deaths (83%) had indirect obstetric causes; and <5 (<4%) had undetermined causes. The majority of maternal deaths in Canada have direct obstetric causes, whereas most late maternal deaths have indirect obstetric causes. Suicide is an important direct cause of late maternal death.

Non-Western immigrants to Europe are at high risk for type 2 diabetes. In this nationwide study including incident cases of type 2 diabetes, the aim was to compare all-cause mortality (ACM) and cause-specific mortality (CSM) rates in first- and second-generation immigrants with native Swedes. People living in Sweden diagnosed with new-onset pharmacologically treated type 2 diabetes between 2006 and 2012 were identified through the Swedish Prescribed Drug Register. They were followed until 31 December 2016 for ACM and until 31 December 2012 for CSM. Analyses were adjusted for age at diagnosis, sex, socioeconomic status, education, treatment and region. Associations were assessed using Cox regression analysis. In total, 138,085 individuals were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes between 2006 and 2012 and fulfilled inclusion criteria. Of these, 102,163 (74.0%) were native Swedes, 28,819 (20.9%) were first-generation immigrants and 7103 (5.1%) were second-generation immigrants with either one or both parents born outside Sweden. First-generation immigrants had lower ACM rate (HR 0.80 [95% CI 0.76, 0.84]) compared with native Swedes. The mortality rates were particularly low in people born in non-Western regions (0.46 [0.42, 0.50]; the Middle East, 0.41 [0.36, 0.47]; Asia, 0.53 [0.43, 0.66]; Africa, 0.47 [0.38, 0.59]; and Latin America, 0.53 [0.42, 0.68]). ACM rates decreased with older age at migration and shorter stay in Sweden. Compared with native Swedes, first-generation immigrants with ≤ 24 years in Sweden (0.55 [0.51, 0.60]) displayed lower ACM rates than those spending >24 years in Sweden (0.92 [0.87, 0.97]). Second-generation immigrants did not have better survival rates than native Swedes but rather displayed higher ACM rates for people with both parents born abroad (1.28 [1.05, 1.56]). In people with type 2 diabetes, the lower mortality rate in first-generation non-Western immigrants compared with native Swedes was reduced over time and was equalised in second-generation immigrants. These findings suggest that acculturation to Western culture may impact ACM and CSM in immigrants with type 2 diabetes but further investigation is needed. Graphical abstract.

Little is known about the experiences of women who travel within Europe for abortion care from countries with relatively liberal laws. This paper aims to assess the primary reasons for travel among a sample of women who travelled from European countries with relatively liberal abortion laws to obtain abortion care mainly in the UK and the Netherlands. Multi-country, 5-year mixed methods study on barriers to legal abortion and travel for abortion. UK, the Netherlands and Spain. We present quantitative data from 204 surveys, and qualitative data from 30 in-depth interviews with pregnant people who travelled to the UK, the Netherlands and Spain from countries where abortion is legal on broad grounds within specific gestational age (GA) limits. Mixed-methods. GA when presenting at abortion clinic, primary reason for abortion-related travel. Study participants overwhelmingly reported travelling for abortion because they had exceeded GA limits in their country of residence. Participants also reported numerous delays and barriers to receiving care. Our findings highlight the need for policies that support access to abortion throughout pregnancy and illustrate that early access to it is necessary but not sufficient to meet people's reproductive health needs. This study is funded by the European Research Council (ERC). This study shows that GA limits drive women from EU countries where abortion is legal to seek abortions abroad.

Azoxystrobin (AZ) is an aryloxy pyrimidine fungicide extensively applied in the agriculture field all over the world. There is a little information about the ecotoxicity of AZ fungicide on the freshwater snail Lymnaea luteola (L. luteola). The present study investigated the toxic effect of AZ fungicide on L. luteola by using various measures. We determined the mean LC

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: People with serious mental illnesses are overrepresented in the criminal justice system. Interventions such as Crisis Intervention Teams and Co-responder Teams may improve police officers' ability to provide effective response. There is still a gap in our knowledge of the nature of the situations officers are responding to and their perceptions of what is needed for effective response. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper provides insight into officer perceptions and experiences of the mental health-related calls they respond to involving youth, adults and families. Officers often refer to people in crisis as having "gone off meds" but also recognize more complex factors at the individual level (e.g., co-occurring issues), family level (challenges of caring for a loved one with mental illness) and community level (deficiencies in health and social resources to address long-term unmet needs). Deficiencies in the resources needed to address the unmet needs of people and their families frustrate officers' desires to make a difference and effect long-term outcomes. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Findings underscore the need for cities and communities to develop alternatives to emergency departments which, in the long term, may provide the best hope for reducing the reliance on police as mental health interventionists. Formal collaborations between the law enforcement community and the mental health nursing community could be focused towards this end. Findings provoke the larger question of what should "count" as good police work in the face of deficient community health systems. Practitioners should consider the distinction between police effectiveness and "whole system" effectiveness. Police officers could be held to account for "principled encounters" that are resolved in ways that reduce immediate harm, avoid stigma and advance procedural justice, but the full impact of their effects is contingent on the capacity of the wider system to do its job. Mental health nurses are well positioned to assist with officer training and provide support to officers responding to mental health-related situations. ABSTRACT: Introduction Data on fatal outcomes of police encounters, combined with evidence on the criminalization of people with mental illnesses, reveal a grave need to improve outcomes for individuals with mental illnesses who come into contact with police. Current efforts are hampered by a lack of in-depth knowledge about the nature of nature and context of these encounters. Aim/Question Building on previous findings from a larger study on the nature and outcomes of mental health-related encounters with police in Chicago, this paper examines officer perspectives on the unmet needs of individuals and their families and the ways in which the mental health and social system environment constrain officers' abilities to be responsive to them. Methods Findings are drawn from qualitative data produced through 36 "ride-alongs" with police officers. Field researchers conducted open-ended observations of police work during routine shifts and carried out interviews with officers-according to a ride-along question guide-during periods of inactivity or between calls for service to ask about experiences of mental health-related calls. Field notes describing their observations and ride-along interviews were analysed inductively using a combination of open and focused coding. Results Officers responded to a variety of mental health-related calls revealing complex, unmet needs at individual and family levels. A common theme related to officers' perceptions that "going off meds," combined with other situational factors, resulted in police being involved in behavioural health situations. The data also revealed broader aspects of the health and social system that, in officers' minds, constrain their ability to effect positive outcomes for people and their families, especially in the long term. Discussion Findings beg the larger question of what it is we, as a society, should expect of police in the handling of mental health-related calls, given their concerns with the wider health and social service system that they experience as deficient. At the same time, the view that "going off meds" is a common trigger of mental health-related events should be interpreted with care, as it may signal or perhaps serve as a shorthand for more complex health and social needs that could be obscured by a pharmacological or medicalized perspective on mental illness. This is an important area of future inquiry for research at the intersection of policing and mental health nursing. Implications for practice The contribution of police to the wellness and recovery of people and their families is constrained by the ability of the community health and social service system to do its job. A wave of new initiatives designed to enhance the interface between police and the medical community holds out hope for alleviating officers' concerns about whether they can work in tandem with the rest of the system to make a difference. For now, we suggest that what we can expect of police is to implement "principled encounters" that ensure public safety while achieving harm reduction, self-determination and the reduction of stigma. Mental health nurses are well positioned to assist with officer training and provide support to officers responding to mental health-related situations. However, the fields of policing and nursing practice may not yet fully understand the individual, family and community dynamics driving calls for police service. The notion of "gone off meds" should be interrogated as a potential trope that obscures a whole-of-person approach and whole-system approach to mental health crisis response and care.

The first access to a mental health service is sometimes marked by aggressive behaviours and anger. Forced hospitalization is frequently an occasion for resistance and hostility to the service, which should not be mistaken for psychotic symptoms. If this situation is not dealt with effectively, it can jeopardize the quality of the relationship with staff and compliance with the treatment programme. The narrator presents his experience in undergoing voluntary psychiatric treatment, casting light on nurses' good and bad practices: those that increased resistance, and those that helped de-escalate the uncontrolled reaction at the time of access, as well as during the recovery period. Practitioners should be able to put in place listening techniques and ways of personalizing the relationship with the patient. When such measures become part of the patient's meaning system, the vicious circle of misunderstood anger that creates more anger may be interrupted and the patient can invest in relationships of trust. Aggression is often a reason for psychiatric hospitalization and may lead to prolonged hospital stays, and at worst to compulsory treatments. The relationship between mental illness and aggressive behaviour is a source for debate in the literature, while research data suggest that violent behaviour is impacted not only by the mental state of the patient, but also by environmental and relational conditions, hence the importance of an increased awareness of operating methods on the part of psychiatric staff. Alex's story is an effective mirror for rethinking staff conduct and offers many practical suggestions for understanding a patient's point of view in critical episodes and for deescalating relational tension.

Parent engagement in perinatal mortality review meetings following stillbirth may benefit parents and improve patient safety. We investigated perinatal mortality review meeting practices, including the extent of parent engagement, based on self-reports from healthcare professionals from maternity care facilities in six high-income countries. Cross-sectional online survey. Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, UK and USA. A total of 1104 healthcare professionals, comprising mainly obstetricians, gynaecologists, midwives and nurses. Data were drawn from responses to a survey covering stillbirth-related topics. Open- and closed-items that focused on 'Data quality on causes of stillbirth' were analysed. Healthcare professionals' self-reported practices around perinatal mortality review meetings following stillbirth. Most clinicians (81.0%) were aware of regular audit meetings to review stillbirth at their maternity facility, although this was true for only 35.5% of US respondents. For the 854 respondents whose facility held regular meetings, less than a third (31.1%) reported some form of parent engagement, and this was usually in the form of one-way post-meeting feedback. Across all six countries, only 17.1% of respondents described an explicit approach where parents provided input, received feedback and were represented at meetings. We found no established practice of involving parents in the perinatal mortality review process in six high-income countries. Parent engagement may hold the key to important lessons for stillbirth prevention and care. Further understanding of approaches, barriers and enablers is warranted. Parent engagement in mortality review after stillbirth is rare, based on data from six countries. We need to understand the barriers.

This article provides a detailed picture of the mindset of Americans about Medicaid work requirements and the important roles that perception of deservingness and racial bias play in public attitudes. The authors conducted a large original survey to investigate public attitudes toward work requirements. They analyzed the predictors of overall support for work requirements, correlates of who should be exempt from them, and attitudes toward work supports that make compliance with work requirements easier. The authors found that public opinion is split relatively evenly when it comes to Medicaid work requirements in the abstract. When Americans are confronted with the complexities of the issue, important nuances emerge. The authors also found consistent evidence that support for work requirements is higher among conservatives, those who see Medicaid as a short-term program, and racially resentful non-Hispanic whites. They show that groups that have historically been framed as deserving see high levels of support for their exemption (e.g., the disabled and senior citizens). Finally, the authors found that Americans are supportive of policies that provide individuals with help when transitioning into the workforce. Americans' views of Medicaid and the populations it serves are complex and continue to be influenced by perceptions of deservingness and race.

Biological changes underlying the sexual and reproductive maturation of school-age children are linked with various sexual and reproductive health and rights risks. SRHR risks are predictors of poor SRHR outcomes, such as poor knowledge of sexually transmitted diseases and early sexual initiation occurring predominantly among school-age children. The aim of this proposed review, therefore, is to identify educational interventions that have proven to be effective in promoting or supporting the sexual and reproductive health and rights of school-aged children in low- and middle-income countries. A systematic review of studies on the strategies promoting the SRHR of school-aged children shall be conducted. Electronic searches will be conducted from January 2000 onwards on the following databases: MEDLINE(R) ALL (Ovid), Embase (Ovid), CINAHL (EBSCOHost), APA PsycInfo (Ovid), ERIC (Ovid), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Ovid), Education Source (EBSCOHost), Web of Science (Clarivate Analytics), SciELO Citation Index (Clarivate Analytics), Global Health (Ovid), and Sociological Abstract (Proquest). Studies eligible for inclusion will be randomized control trials (RCTs), non-randomized trials, quasi-experimental studies (e.g., pre-post tests), and observational studies (cross-sectional and cohort studies). Peer-reviewed studies published in English and/or French and involving school-aged children 5-10 years old will be included. The primary outcomes of interest will include knowledge, awareness, or attitudes about SRHR topics. The secondary outcomes of interest will include sexual and reproductive behaviors. Two reviewers will independently screen all citations, abstract data, and full-text articles, and the methodological quality of each study will be appraised using JBI critical appraisal tools. A narrative synthesis of extracted data will be conducted. The systematic review will synthesize the evidence on existing educational interventions targeting SRHR outcomes of school-aged children in low- and middle-income countries. It will identify which interventions have proven to be effective, and which interventions have not proven to be effective in promoting or supporting their SRHR. Review findings will provide a useful reference for policy-makers, program developers, global health leaders, and decision makers who wish to support the SRHR of school-age children. The protocol has been registered at the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO CRD42020173158).

To evaluate whether caesarean delivery before 26 weeks of gestation was associated with symptoms of depression and anxiety in mothers in comparison with deliveries between 26 and 34 weeks. Prospective national population-based EPIPAGE-2 cohort study. 268 neonatology departments in France, March to December 2011. Mothers who delivered between 22 and 34 weeks and whose self-reported symptoms of depression (Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale: CES-D) and anxiety (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory: STAI) were assessed at the moment of neonatal discharge. The association of caesarean delivery before 26 weeks with severe symptoms of depression (CES-D ≥16) and anxiety (STAI ≥45) was assessed by weighted and design-based log-linear regression model. Severe symptoms of depression and anxiety in mothers of preterm infants. Among the 2270 women completing CES-D and STAI questionnaires at the time of neonatal discharge, severe symptoms of depression occurred in 25 (65.8%) women having a caesarean before 26 weeks versus in 748 (50.6%) women having a caesarean after 26 weeks. Caesarean delivery before 26 weeks was associated with severe symptoms of depression compared with caesarean delivery after 26 weeks (adjusted relative risk [aRR] 1.42, 95% CI 1.12-1.81) adjusted to neonatal birthweight and severe neonatal morbidity among other factors. There was no evidence of an association between mode of delivery and symptoms of anxiety. Mothers having a caesarean delivery before 26 weeks' gestation are at high risk of symptoms of depression and may benefit from specific preventive care. Mothers having caesarean delivery before 26 weeks' gestation are at high risk of symptoms of depression.

Loneliness is associated with all-cause mortality and coronary heart disease. However, the prospective relationship between loneliness and type 2 diabetes onset is unclear. We conducted a longitudinal observational population study with data on 4112 diabetes-free participants (mean age 65.02 ± 9.05) from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing. Loneliness was assessed in 2004-2005 using the revised University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Loneliness Scale. Incident type 2 diabetes cases were assessed from 2006 to 2017. Associations were modelled using Cox proportional hazards regression, adjusting for potential confounders, which included cardiometabolic comorbidities. A total of 264 (6.42%) participants developed type 2 diabetes over the follow-up period. Loneliness was a significant predictor of incident type 2 diabetes (HR 1.46; 95% CI 1.15, 1.84; p = 0.002) independent of age, sex, ethnicity, wealth, smoking status, physical activity, alcohol consumption, BMI, HbA Loneliness is a risk factor for type 2 diabetes. The mechanisms underlying this relationship remain to be elucidated. Graphical abstract.

The factors affecting host-pathogen ecology in terms of the microbiome remain poorly studied. Chickens are a key source of protein with gut health heavily dependent on the complex microbiome which has key roles in nutrient assimilation and vitamin and amino acid biosynthesis. The chicken gut microbiome may be influenced by extrinsic production system parameters such as Placement Birds/m Our data identified production system N as significantly dissimilar from production systems HW and O when comparing the prevalence of genera. An increase in Placement Birds/m Overall, our results show that microbial communities in different industrial production systems are deterministic in elucidating the underlying biological confounders, and these recommendations are transferable to farm practices and diet manipulation leading to improved performance and better intervention strategies against Campylobacter within the food chain. Video Abstract.

Some directly transmitted human pathogens, such as influenza and measles, generate sustained exponential growth in incidence and have a high peak incidence consistent with the rapid depletion of susceptible individuals. Many do not. While a prolonged exponential phase typically arises in traditional disease-dynamic models, current quantitative descriptions of nonstandard epidemic profiles are either abstract, phenomenological, or rely on highly skewed offspring distributions in network models. Here, we create large socio-spatial networks to represent contact behavior using human population-density data, a previously developed fitting algorithm, and gravity-like mobility kernels. We define a basic reproductive number [Formula: see text] for this system, analogous to that used for compartmental models. Controlling for [Formula: see text], we then explore networks with a household-workplace structure in which between-household contacts can be formed with varying degrees of spatial correlation, determined by a single parameter from the gravity-like kernel. By varying this single parameter and simulating epidemic spread, we are able to identify how more frequent local movement can lead to strong spatial correlation and, thus, induce subexponential outbreak dynamics with lower, later epidemic peaks. Also, the ratio of peak height to final size was much smaller when movement was highly spatially correlated. We investigate the topological properties of our networks via a generalized clustering coefficient that extends beyond immediate neighborhoods, identifying very strong correlations between fourth-order clustering and nonstandard epidemic dynamics. Our results motivate the observation of both incidence and socio-spatial human behavior during epidemics that exhibit nonstandard incidence patterns.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The high prevalence of adults presenting to the mental health services places mental health nurses (MHNs) in a unique position to help to identify and support the person with the associated challenges of child sexual abuse (CSA). Feelings of discomfort have been identified by mental health nurses (MHNs) when working with survivors of CSA due to a lack of knowledge, poor confidence and feeling unprepared to inquire and respond to such a sensitive topic. WHAT DOES THE STUDY ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: MHNs are willing to engage in CSA dialogue; however, the level of engagement is often conditional with clear parameters set by participants. Whilst all participants reported they were willing to engage in conversation initiated by the service user, some were unwilling to listen to details of the CSA and used strategies to censor service users from providing details of the CSA. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Whilst self-protecting boundaries helped MHNs to engage in CSA dialogue, strategies to censor aspects of the service user's dialogue may reinforce the belief that their experience of CSA is too shameful to talk about, hence denying the reality of their experience and contributing to feelings of re-shaming. MHNs need a combination of theoretical knowledge and psychosocial skills to achieve clinical competence when working with CSA; therefore, training should not only include information pertaining to facts and statistics but also case presentations, clinical training and supervision. Clinical supervision was highlighted by all participants as a necessary means of formal support, more specifically group clinical supervision whereby peer support can also be availed of in a formalized setting. ABSTRACT: Introduction The high prevalence of adults presenting to the mental health services places mental health nurses (MHNs) in a unique position to support the person with the associated challenges of CSA, yet little is known about the preparedness of MHNs to work with this client population. Aim To explore MHNs' perceived preparedness to work with adults who have CSA histories, and to elicit their views, skills and confidence in relation to working with this sensitive issue. Method In-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with five consenting MHNs. A qualitative descriptive methodology informed the study. A thematic analysis framework guided the data analysis. Results The findings assert that MHNs are willing to work with survivors of CSA despite feeling unprepared to so, MHNs described feeling ill-prepared in how to respond to CSA, calling for not just education and training specific to CSA but also citing the need for clinical supervision and additional guidelines to enhance their preparedness. Discussion Results of this study further highlighted the omission of CSA within nursing curricula and the absence of role models within clinical practice as a major barrier to preparedness to work with survivors of CSA. Recommendations are made for training, education and the inclusion of clinical supervision.

There is wide variation in gender distribution in colorectal surgery across different European countries. This study aimed to evaluate female representation, implicit bias, and members' perception on female participation and representation at the European Society of Coloproctology 2017 annual scientific meeting. This was a retrospective mixed-methods cross-sectional observational study. The study was conducted using data from the 2017 European Society of Coloproctology annual scientific meeting program and attendees. The primary outcome measure was the percentage of female speakers in the formal program and assessment for implicit bias. Secondary outcomes were the percentage of women attending the conference, the percentage of women serving on committees, and the results of the online survey. Female representation was retrospectively quantified by role, session type, and topic. Implicit bias was measured classifying the introductions of speakers by moderators as formal (using a professional title) or informal (using name only), then further stratified by gender. An online survey was disseminated and analyzed to investigate the members' perception as a benchmark analysis. Disparities were found between sexes, with fewer women attending the conference (25%), serving as session chairs (8%), speakers (21%), and on committees (10%) compared with men. There were no differences across sexes regarding the formal or informal introduction. The survey among our members showed that significantly fewer women felt equally endorsed within the society compared with men (33% versus 63%; p < 0.001). The retrospective design with data available to be analyzed was limited by the sessions recorded (27/49) and survey respondents (28%). Female representation within European Society of Coloproctology as chair, speaker, attendee, and committee member was much lower than male representation, both in absolute numbers and relative to membership. Greater awareness of this disparity and inclusiveness are aims of our society. The impact of these initiatives will be determined by reevaluating these metrics at the 2020 annual meeting. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B384. ANTECEDENTES:Existe una amplia variabilidad en la distribución de géneros en la cirugía colorrectal en los diferentes países de Europa.OBJETIVO:Evaluar la representación femenina, el sesgo implícito y la percepción de los miembros sobre la participación y representación femenina en el 12° Congreso científico anual de la Sociedad Europea de Coloproctología.DESIGN:Este fué un estudio observacional retrospectivo de métodos mixtos transversales.AJUSTES:Los análisis se realizaron utilizando los datos del programa cintífico de la reunión y los datos de los presentes en el Congreso de la ESCP en 2017.MEDIDAS PRINCIPALES DE RESULTADOS:La principal medida en el resultado fue el porcentaje de disertantes femeninas en el programa definitivo y la evaluación del sesgo implícito. Los resultados secundarios fueron el porcentaje de mujeres que asistieron a la conferencia, trabajaron en los comités y los resultados de la encuesta informática.METODOS:La representación femenina se cuantificó retrospectivamente según el rol, tipo de sesión y temas. Se midió el sesgo implícito clasificando las introducciones de los disertantes por parte de los moderadores de manera formal (usando un título profesional) o informal (usando solamente el nombre), y luego fueron estratificadas por género. Se difundió y analizó una encuesta informática para investigar la percepción de los miembros como análisis de referencia.RESULTADOS:Se encontraron disparidades de género, con menos mujeres presentes en la conferencia (25%), obrando como presidentes de sesión (8%), como disertantes (21%) y como miembros de comités (10%) comparadas con los hombres. No hubo diferencia entre sexos con respecto a la introducción formal o informal. La encuesta informática entre los miembros mostró significativamente que menos mujeres se sentían respaldadas igualitariamente dentro de la sociedad comparadas con los hombres (33% frente a 63%, p<0.001).LIMITACIONES:Diseño retrospectivo de datos limitados a las sesiones grabadas (27/49) y a los encuestados (28%) disponibles para el análisis.CONCLUSIONES:La representación femenina dentro de la Sociedad Europea de Coloproctología como presidente, disertante, asistente ó como miembro del comité fué mucho menor que la representación masculina, tanto en números absolutos como en relación con la membresía. Crear una mayor conciencia de esta disparidad de inclusión son prioridad en nuestra sociedad. El impacto de estas iniciativas se determinará re-evaluando estas variables en reuniones futuras. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B384.

To synthesise what is known about women combining motherhood and a career in medicine by examining the published research into their experiences and perspectives. We reviewed peer-reviewed articles published or available in English reporting original research into motherhood and medicine and published during 2008-2019. Two researchers screened each abstract and independently reviewed full text articles. Study quality was assessed. CINAHL, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Web of Science, and Scopus abstract databases. The database search identified 4200 articles; after screening and full text assessment, we undertook an integrative review synthesis of the 35 articles that met our inclusion criteria. Three core themes were identified: Motherhood: the impact of being a doctor on raising children; Medicine: the impact of being a mother on a medical career; and Combining motherhood and medicine: strategies and policies. Several structural and attitudinal barriers to women pursuing both medical careers and motherhood were identified. It was often reported that women prioritise career advancement by delaying starting a family, and that female doctors believed that career progression would be slowed by motherhood. Few evaluations of policies for supporting pregnant doctors, providing maternity leave, and assisting their return to work after giving birth have been published. We did not find any relevant studies undertaken in Australia or New Zealand, nor any studies with a focus on community-based medicine or intervention studies. Prospective investigations and rigorous evaluations of policies and support mechanisms in different medical specialties would be appropriate. PROSPERO CRD42019116228.

To estimate pooled all-cause and cause-specific mortality risk for people with regular or problematic cocaine use. Systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective or retrospective cohort studies or clinical trials (n ≥30) of people with regular or problematic cocaine use with data on all-cause or cause-specific mortality. Of 2808 papers, 28 were eligible and reported on 21 cohorts, with a total 170 019 individuals. Cohorts identified based on acute care for drug poisoning or other severe health presentation were excluded. Title/abstract screening was conducted by one reviewer; a second reviewer independently checked 10% of excluded studies. Two reviewers conducted full-text screening. Data were extracted by one reviewer and checked by a second. A customized review-specific study reporting quality/risk of bias tool was used. Data on crude mortality rates (CMR) and standardized mortality ratios were extracted for both all-cause and cause-specific mortality. Standardized mortality ratios were imputed where not provided by the author using extracted data and information from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017. Data were pooled using a random-effects model. The pooled all-cause crude mortality rate was 1.24 per 100 person-years [95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.86, 1.78; n = 16 cohorts], but with considerable heterogeneity (I There are elevated rates of mortality among people with regular or problematic cocaine use for traumatic deaths and deaths attributable to infectious disease.

As production of rapid reviews (RRs) increases in healthcare, knowing how to efficiently convey RR evidence to various end-users is important given they are often intended to directly inform decision-making. Little is known about how often RRs are produced in the published or unpublished domains, and what and how information is structured. To compare and contrast report format and content features of journal-published (JP) and non-journal published (NJP) RRs. JP RRs were identified from key databases, and NJP RRs were identified from a grey literature search of 148 RR producing organizations and were sampled proportionate to cluster size by organization and product type to match the JP RR group. We extracted and formally compared 'how' (i.e., visual arrangement) and 'what' information was presented. We identified 103 RRs (52 JP and 51 NJP) from 2016. A higher percentage of certain features were observed in JP RRs compared to NJP RRs (e.g., reporting authors; use of a traditional journal article structure; section headers including abstract, methods, discussion, conclusions, acknowledgments, conflict of interests, and author contributions; and use of figures (e.g., Study Flow Diagram) in the main document). For NJP RRs, a higher percentage of features were observed (e.g., use non-traditional report structures; bannering of executive summary sections and appendices; use of typographic cues; and including outcome tables). NJP RRs were more than double in length versus JP RRs. Including key messages was uncommon in both groups. This comparative study highlights differences between JP and NJP RRs. Both groups may benefit from better use of plain language, and more clear and concise design. Alternative innovative formats and end-user preferences for content and layout should be studied further with thought given to other considerations to ensure better packaging of RR results to facilitate uptake into policy and practice. The full protocol is available at: https://osf.io/29xvk/.

A large proportion of residents in urban centers of low- and middle-income countries live in low-socioeconomic neighborhoods called "slums" characterized by low-cost housings of high population density, poor ventilation, and likely poor air quality. This study provides the first quantitative assessment of spatial and seasonal variation of outdoor BC and PM

Electronic patient record (EPR) technology is a key enabler for improvements to healthcare service and management. To ensure these improvements and the means to achieve them are socially and ethically desirable, careful consideration of the ethical implications of EPRs is indicated. The purpose of this scoping review was to map the literature related to the ethics of EPR technology. The literature review was conducted to catalogue the prevalent ethical terms, to describe the associated ethical challenges and opportunities, and to identify the actors involved. By doing so, it aimed to support the future development of ethics guidance in the EPR domain. To identify journal articles debating the ethics of EPRs, Scopus, Web of Science, and PubMed academic databases were queried and yielded 123 eligible articles. The following inclusion criteria were applied: articles need to be in the English language; present normative arguments and not solely empirical research; include an abstract for software analysis; and discuss EPR technology. The medical specialty, type of information captured and stored in EPRs, their use and functionality varied widely across the included articles. Ethical terms extracted were categorised into clusters 'privacy', 'autonomy', 'risk/benefit', 'human relationships', and 'responsibility'. The literature shows that EPR-related ethical concerns can have both positive and negative implications, and that a wide variety of actors with rights and/or responsibilities regarding the safe and ethical adoption of the technology are involved. While there is considerable consensus in the literature regarding EPR-related ethical principles, some of the associated challenges and opportunities remain underdiscussed. For example, much of the debate is presented in a manner more in keeping with a traditional model of healthcare and fails to take account of the multidimensional ensemble of factors at play in the EPR era and the consequent need to redefine/modify ethical norms to align with a digitally-enabled health service. Similarly, the academic discussion focuses predominantly on bioethical values. However, approaches from digital ethics may also be helpful to identify and deliberate about current and emerging EPR-related ethical concerns.

Gentrification in the largest 50 US cities has more than doubled since the 1990s. The process of gentrification can bring about improved neighborhood conditions, reduced rates of crime, and property value increases. At the same time, it can equally foster negative conditions associated with poorer health outcomes, such as disrupted social networks from residential displacement and increases in stress. While neighborhood environment is consistently implicated in health outcomes research, gentrification is rarely conceptualized as a public health issue. Though research on gentrification is growing, empirical studies evaluating the health impacts of gentrification in the US are poorly understood. Here we systematically review US population-based empirical studies examining relationships between gentrification and health. Electronic databases (PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Scopus, Web of Science, and Academic Search Complete) were searched using a combination of terms to identify peer-reviewed studies published on or before July 9, 2018, reporting associations between gentrification and health. Study title and abstract screenings were followed by full-text review of all studies meeting the following inclusion criteria of: ≥ 1 quantitative measure of association for a health outcome, within the context of gentrification; peer-reviewed research; located in the US; and English language. Of 8937 studies identified, 6152 underwent title and abstract screening, and 50 studies underwent full-text screening, yielding six studies for review. Gentrification exposure measures and health outcomes examined varied widely. Most studies reported little to no overall association between gentrification and health outcomes; however, gentrification was repeatedly associated with undesirable health effects among Black and economically vulnerable residents. Despite seemingly overall null associations between gentrification and health, evidence suggests that gentrification may negatively impact the health of certain populations, particularly Black and low-income individuals. Complexities inherent in operationalizing gentrification point toward the need for validated measures. Additionally, understanding how gentrification-health associations differ across health endpoints, race/ethnicities, socioeconomic status, and life course can provide insight into whether this process contributes to urban inequality and health disparities. As gentrification occurs across the US, it is important to understand how this process impacts health. While aging cities reinvest in the revitalization of communities, empirical research examining relationships between gentrification and health can help inform policy decisions.

Suicide is a leading cause of death that defies prediction and challenges prevention efforts worldwide. Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) have emerged as a means of investigating large datasets to enhance risk detection. A systematic review of ML investigations evaluating suicidal behaviors was conducted using PubMed/MEDLINE, PsychInfo, Web-of-Science, and EMBASE, employing search strings and MeSH terms relevant to suicide and AI. Databases were supplemented by hand-search techniques and Google Scholar. Inclusion criteria: (1) journal article, available in English, (2) original investigation, (3) employment of AI/ML, (4) evaluation of a suicide risk outcome. N = 594 records were identified based on abstract search, and 25 hand-searched reports. N = 461 reports remained after duplicates were removed, n = 316 were excluded after abstract screening. Of n = 149 full-text articles assessed for eligibility, n = 87 were included for quantitative synthesis, grouped according to suicide behavior outcome. Reports varied widely in methodology and outcomes. Results suggest high levels of risk classification accuracy (>90%) and Area Under the Curve (AUC) in the prediction of suicidal behaviors. We report key findings and central limitations in the use of AI/ML frameworks to guide additional research, which hold the potential to impact suicide on broad scale.

We aimed to examine the association of type 1 diabetes with school wellbeing among Danish children. This is a population-based cohort study involving 436,439 Danish children, of which 1499 had a confirmed diagnosis of type 1 diabetes. The children were enrolled in grade levels 4 to 9 (middle school) in Danish public schools in the years 2014-2017. Questionnaire outcomes from the yearly National Wellbeing Survey related to self-efficacy, perceived competences, peer and teacher support, bullying and somatic symptoms were analysed. Ordered logistic regression was used to compare outcomes of children with and without type 1 diabetes, and to compare subgroups of children with type 1 diabetes by different levels of HbA A total of 817,679 questionnaires were initiated, of which n = 2681 were from children with type 1 diabetes. Compared with the background population, children with type 1 diabetes expressed more peer support; adjusted OR 1.17 (95% CI 1.08, 1.27). Children with diabetes also reported more often having a headache; adjusted OR 1.09 (95% CI 1.00, 1.19). Overall, children with poor glycaemic control (HbA In Denmark, children with type 1 diabetes generally feel well supported in school but have more headaches than other children. Poor glycaemic control is associated with worse psychological school-related wellbeing. Graphical abstract.

The objective of this review is to identify and collate the available evidence, and to produce an overview of interventions delivered in secondary and tertiary healthcare settings with the aim of improving vaccination uptake in children and young people. Vaccine hesitancy appears in the World Health Organization's Ten Threats to Global Health in 2019. Time spent in secondary or tertiary healthcare settings with a child or young person may present an opportunity to deliver vaccination-focused interventions. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidance highlights a gap in the evidence of the effectiveness of different interventions aimed at increasing immunization uptake among children and young people. Quantitative studies that describe interventions delivered in secondary and tertiary care settings will be included. Participants will include children and young people aged less than 16 years and/or their parents/carers (potentially interventions could be delivered to the child-parent/carer dyad) present in a secondary or tertiary care setting as either a patient or relative. This scoping review will be conducted using MEDLINE, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, Embase, Web of Science, as well as gray literature. The scoping review will exclude publications not available in English and any publication older than 30 years. Two reviewers will independently select articles using the inclusion criteria, based on their title and abstract. Data will be extracted from selected full text articles using a data extraction tool based on JBI recommendations. Study findings will be presented in tabular form detailing the interventions identified in the literature.

This mixed methods systematic review examines the effectiveness and family experiences of interventions that promote partnerships between parents and the multidisciplinary health care team in pediatric and neonatal intensive care units. The hospitalization of a child or infant in an intensive care unit can have considerable negative effects on them and their family. Family members can experience increased stress, anxiety or depression and detrimental impacts on quality of life and family functioning. Interventions that promote families as health care partners may improve negative outcomes arising from intensive care hospitalization. The review will include family members of pediatric or neonatal patients hospitalized in an intensive care unit. It will focus on interventions that promote partnership between families and multidisciplinary health care teams in pediatric and neonatal intensive care units and the family's experiences of these interventions. The outcomes of interest are stress, anxiety, depression, quality of life, family functioning, family empowerment or satisfaction with family-centered care. The proposed review will follow the JBI methodology for convergent segregated mixed methods systematic reviews. It will search for published and unpublished studies from eight different sources. Studies will be reviewed by title and abstract and potentially eligible studies will have full text retrieved for further review. Studies meeting the inclusion criteria will be assessed on methodological quality and the data will be extracted. Separate quantitative and qualitative analysis and synthesis will be performed and an overall analysis will be presented. PROSPERO CRD42019137834.

The objective of this review was to synthesize evidence on the experiences and perceptions of spousal/partner caregivers of community-dwelling adults with dementia. Currently 47 million people in the world have a diagnosis of dementia, and this number is predicted to climb to 75 million by 2030. The majority of care is provided by family members, particularly spouses/partners. Quantitative systematic reviews of spouse/partner caregivers demonstrate negative health effects for these caregivers. This review synthesized the qualitative evidence on the experiences of spousal/partner caregivers of people with dementia to further understanding how this care and the context of care contribute to the health and well-being of spousal/partner caregivers. This review considered qualitative studies that explored the experiences of spousal/partner caregivers providing care for adults with dementia. The focus was on qualitative designs including, but not limited to, phenomenology, grounded theory, ethnography, action research, critical research and feminist research. The search strategy used a three-step approach and was aimed at locating both published and unpublished studies. Key databases included MEDLINE, CINAHL, Embase, PsycINFO, Sociological Abstracts, ISI Web of Science, and Dissertation Abstracts International. Gray literature was searched using keywords from the database searches. The databases were searched from inception to February 2017, and a mix of controlled vocabulary (i.e. MeSH, CINAHL headings) and keywords were used to capture all existing qualitative studies related to the experiences and perceptions of spousal/partner caregivers providing unpaid care for adults with dementia. During the title and abstract screening, only English and French articles were included. The recommended JBI approach to study selection, critical appraisal, data extraction and data synthesis was used. Seven of the 10 critical appraisal criteria were deemed essential, with exceptions identified for criteria 1, 6 and 7. Nineteen studies were included in the review. Study designs included phenomenology (eight), grounded theory (five), qualitative description (four), ethnography (one) and narrative inquiry (one). The total number of participants was 248 (164 women and 84 men). The overall quality of the studies was rated as moderate on the ConQual score, with dependability rated as moderate and credibility rated as high. One hundred and fifty-five findings were aggregated into four categories and two synthesized findings. The two synthesized findings were "the expectation to care in the midst of uncertainty and unpredictability" and "the caregiver as hostage". This review provides a comprehensive understanding that can inform spousal/partner caregiver policies and programs. Evidence is required on the experiences and perceptions of caregivers across the gender continuum. Interventions and interventional research that mobilizes the evidence to date is essential for the future of caregivers. The limitations to this review include the possibility of missed studies, all study participants being in heterosexual relationships, and the majority of participants being Caucasian. Recommendations for practice, policy and research include the need for awareness of the extent of change in the lives of the person with dementia and the spousal/partner caregiver, the importance of support and respite, the need to tangibly recognize the value of the unpaid caregiver in a way that preserves the health and well-being of this group, and research is required that is culturally sensitive and reflects the experiences of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, transsexual, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, ally, pansexual populations.

In Africa, travels, urbanisation and changing consumer habits are increasing the number of people buying and eating food prepared/sold at public spaces including transport stations, particularly in the urban and periurban areas. Although food trading in such public spaces serves as a source of livelihood for many people, unsafe food can have a negative impact on health. We, therefore, aim to systematically explore and examine the literature, and describe the evidence on food safety (food handling, storage, preparation and sale, packaging of food when sold, hygiene of sale venue and quality (nutrition) of food sold/purchased/eaten) at transport stations to inform policy, as well as identify research gaps for future studies in Africa. We will employ the Arksey & O'Malley framework, Levac  Ethics approval is not required. All sources of data will be adequately cited and added to the reference list. We will present the final scoping review results at the appropriate workshops, meetings, conferences, as well as submit for peer-review and publication in a scientific journal.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Bisexual people experience significantly poorer mental health and higher rates of self-harm and suicidality than their gay, lesbian or heterosexual counterparts. Although little is understood about why these disparities exist, bisexual people have been found to have unique life experiences that separate them from other sexual minority groups. Despite these health disparities and unique experiences, in research and in clinical settings, bisexual people are often incorporated under the LGBTQI+ umbrella and their needs are not seen as being different to those of other sub-groups. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper brings together the findings of the small but growing body of literature reporting on the psychosocial support needs of bisexual people. The findings reported on herein provide novel insights, collated and synthesized that will prove valuable to policy makers, service providers and researchers. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This paper clearly illustrates that bisexual people experience significant barriers to accessing the support services they need and that current competent service provision for this population is severely limited. The findings presented in this paper shed light on the unique psychosocial needs of bisexual people and highlight the need for practice change to reduce barriers to service access and ensure inclusive and culturally competent care for this community. ABSTRACT: Introduction Despite consistent evidence of poor mental health among what is a relatively large population group, research examining bisexual mental health remains sparse. Aim To identify the psychosocial needs of people who are bisexual and establish factors that may support or inhibit access to appropriate psychosocial interventions and supports. Method A qualitative evidence syntheses of the empirical evidence. Results A total of 15 papers were included in the review. The PRISMA process was used. Following data analysis, four main themes emerged that were (a) experiences of being bisexual, (b) mental health experiences and concerns, (c) service access and responses and (iv) communities and supports. Discussion Bisexual people have unique and specific psychosocial support needs that relate to, but are also different from, the needs of the broader LGBTIQ+ community. This study provides valuable insights into how future policy, practice, education and training and research can better address the needs of this highly vulnerable group. Implications for Practice This study highlights the psychosocial complexities associated with bisexuality and provides evidence for the need for improvement in current support services to ensure inclusivity and culturally competent care.

The social environment can influence the functional capacity of nervous and immune systems, and consequently the state of health, especially in aged individuals. Adult female tyrosine hydroxylase haploinsufficient (TH-HZ) mice exhibit behavioral impairments, premature immunosenescence and oxidative- inflammatory stress. All these deteriorations are associated with a lower lifespan than wild type (WT) counterparts. The aim was to analyze whether the cohabitation with WT animals could revert or at least ameliorate the deterioration in the nervous and immune systems that female TH-HZ mice show at adult age. Female TH-HZ and WT mice at age of 3-4 weeks were divided into following groups: control TH-HZ (5 TH-HZ mice in the cage; TH-HZ100%), control WT (5 WT mice in the cage; WT100%), TH-HZ > 50% and WT < 50% (5 TH-HZ with 2 WT mice in each cage) as well as TH-HZ < 50% and WT > 50% (2 TH-HZ and 5 WT mice in each cage). At the age of 37-38 weeks, all mice were submitted to a battery of behavioral tests, evaluating sensorimotor abilities, exploratory capacities and anxiety-like behaviors. Subsequently, peritoneal leukocytes were extracted and several immune functions as well as oxidative and inflammatory stress parameters were analyzed. The results showed that the TH-HZ < 50% group had improved behavioral responses, especially anxiety-like behaviors, and the immunosenescence and oxidative stress of their peritoneal leukocytes were ameliorated. However, WT mice that cohabited with TH-HZ mice presented higher anxiety-like behaviors and deterioration in immune functions and in their inflammatory stress parameters. Thus, this social environment is capable of ameliorating the impairments associated with a haploinsufficiency of the th gene. Graphical Abstract.

To estimate a stillbirth rate at 24 or more gestational weeks in 2015-2016 and to explore potentially preventable causes in China. A multi-centre cross-sectional study. Ninety-six hospitals distributed in 24 (of 34) provinces in China. A total of 75 132 births at 24 completed weeks of gestation or more. COX Proportional Hazard Models were performed to examine risk factors for antepartum and intrapartum stillbirths. Population attributable risk percentage was calculated for major risk factors. Correspondence analysis was used to explore region-specific risk factors for stillbirths. Stillbirth rate and risk factors for stillbirth. A total of 75 132 births including 949 stillbirths were used for the final analysis, giving a weighted stillbirth rate of 13.2 per 1000 births (95% CI 7.9-18.5). Small for gestational age (SGA) and pre-eclampsia/eclampsia increased antepartum stillbirths by 26.2% and 11.7%, respectively. Fetal anomalies increased antepartum and intrapartum stillbirths by 17.9% and 7.4%, respectively. Overall, 31.4% of all stillbirths were potentially preventable. Advanced maternal age, pre-pregnant obesity, chronic hypertension and diabetes mellitus were important risk factors in East China; low education and SGA were major risk factors in Northwest, Southwest, Northeast and South China; and pre-eclampsia/eclampsia and intrapartum complications were significant risk factors in Central China. The prevalence of stillbirth was 13.2 per 1000 births in China in 2015-2016. Nearly one-third of all stillbirths may be preventable. Strategies based on regional characteristics should be considered to reduce further the burden of stillbirths in China. The stillbirth rate was 13.2 per 1000 births in China in 2015-2016 and nearly one-third of all stillbirths may be preventable.

From early life, children are exposed to a multitude of environmental exposures, which may be of crucial importance for healthy development. Here, the environmental microbiota may be of particular interest as it represents the interface between environmental factors and the child. As infants in modern societies spend a considerable amount of time indoors, we hypothesize that the indoor bed dust microbiota might be an important factor for the child and for the early colonization of the airway microbiome. To explore this hypothesis, we analyzed the influence of environmental exposures on 577 dust samples from the beds of infants together with 542 airway samples from the Copenhagen Prospective Studies on Asthma in Childhood Both bacterial and fungal community was profiled from the bed dust. Bacterial and fungal diversity in the bed dust was positively correlated with each other. Bacterial bed dust microbiota was influenced by multiple environmental factors, such as type of home (house or apartment), living environment (rural or urban), sex of siblings, and presence of pets (cat and/or dog), whereas fungal bed dust microbiota was majorly influenced by the type of home (house or apartment) and sampling season. We further observed minor correlation between bed dust and airway microbiota compositions among infants. We also analyzed the transfer of microbiota from bed dust to the airway, but we did not find evidence of transfer of individual taxa. Current study explores the influence of environmental factors on bed dust microbiota (both bacterial and fungal) and its correlation with airway microbiota (bacterial) in early life using high-throughput sequencing. Our findings demonstrate that bed dust microbiota is influenced by multiple environmental exposures and could represent an interface between environment and child. Video Abstract.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) selected six text-only warnings for cigarillos to be implemented on packaging and advertising. Pictorial warnings are more effective at discouraging cigarette use than text-only warnings, yet no research exists for cigarillos. We sought to understand what types of images might be most effectively paired with the cigarillo text warnings to inform broad principles for developing pictorial warnings, with a focus on young adults, who have the highest rate of cigarillo use. We conducted five focus groups with a total of N = 30 young adult cigarillo users and susceptible nonusers (53% female, 50% White, and 33% Black). Participants were shown four to eight unique images for each of the six text statements and were asked about visual-verbal congruency, emotional and cognitive reactions, and perceived effectiveness of each image. Sessions were recorded and transcribed; two investigators independently coded transcripts for emergent themes. Participants reported images that were graphic or "gross" would best grab attention and discourage use of cigarillos. Participants preferred images that were a direct illustration of the information in the warning text, rather than abstract images that required more cognitive effort to understand. Participants also highlighted that including people in the images, especially youth and young adults making eye contact, helped them relate to the warnings, garner their attention, and positively influence their reactions. We identified several principles to inform the selection of images to pair with the FDA-required cigarillo text statements. These insights may also apply to pictorial warnings for other tobacco products. This focus group study identified principles for selecting images to develop pictorial warnings for the six FDA text-only cigarillo warnings. We found that young adult cigarillo users and susceptible nonusers preferred images that were graphic and gross, believable, congruent to the warning text, and included people. Images that match young adults' visual expectations of a disease and are emotion-provoking may be most effective in pictorial warnings and highlight challenges for developing pictorial warnings for health effects that do not have a visible health consequence.

Domestic Violence in Old Age: Prevention and Intervention 

Parental evaluation of behavioral problems in children with developmental language disorder 

To clarify the concept of maternal self-care in the early postpartum period and to develop a conceptual framework of mothers' self-care needs. An integrative review concept analysis method was used as described by Whittemore and Knafl (2005). As part of this data analysis process, a matrix based on Orem's self-care theory was developed to facilitate a structured and systematic analysis of the data. CINAHL, Embase, PubMed, and Web of Science. After systematic and rigorous literature searches, the title and abstract of 1535 studies were scanned while applying five exclusion criteria. This resulted in 29 studies for full text review. Eventually, nine studies were appraised by two quality assessment tools and selected for the analysis. Guided by Orem's self-care theory, we have built a conceptual framework that depicts maternal self-care in the early postpartum period. Mothers' self-care needs involve numerous and diverse activities, tasks, and emotions, which can be categorised into three themes: universal, developmental, and health self-care needs. Their ability to perform these needs is subjected to various internal and external factors as well as the societal context they live in. Our review indicated that maternal self-care needs, already in the first few days postpartum, go beyond mothers' physical health as it extends to their emotional well-being as well. Postpartum care is, however, generally centred around physical self-care needs putting mothers' emotional self-care needs at risk of neglection. Further research is needed to determine how individualised care innovations can promote maternal self-care.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Pre- and postmenopausal women (PPW) experience changes in physical, psychological and social health. South-East Asia's female suicide rate is the highest compared with other countries, and the suicide rate of PPW in these countries continues to increase. The most influential factor in Asian women's suicidal ideation is family conflict; specifically, if PPW in South Korea cannot express their anger, it results in a culture-bound syndrome called "Hwa-Byung." However, there is a lack of research on Asian PPW. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study found differences in individual- and community-level factors affecting suicidal ideation between pre- and postmenopausal women. Individual factors that commonly affected suicidal ideation were experiencing violence, stress and depression. Individual factors that affected the suicidal ideation of premenopausal women more than postmenopausal women were religious beliefs, alcohol use and chronic disease. Community level factors affecting suicidal ideation were locational depression and locational counselling for stress in premenopausal women and locational counselling for depression in postmenopausal women. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses could help prevent suicide by developing and applying community-based programmes for PPW, considering the specific socio-economic and cultural context and characteristics of Asian women. Mental health nurses could help PPW participate in programmes by preparing various interventions such as case management, personal counselling, physical activity, home-based mental health services, cognitive behavioural therapy and digital interventions for self-management. Mental health nurses need to prepare various methods such as online, offline, individual and group methods to work effectively in any social situation. ABSTRACT: Introduction Pre- and postmenopausal women (PPW) experience physical and psychological changes with hormonal changes. Among Asian middle-aged women, family and culture affect suicidal ideation, and the suicide rate among this population is increasing. There are few existing research on suicidal ideation among Asian PPW. Aim We examined individual- and community-level factors that predict suicidal ideation among PPW. Method Large-scale panel data from 5,154 South Korean PPW aged 35-64 years were used in a series of multilevel logistic regression analyses to examine factors associated with suicidal ideation at individual and community levels. Results Among premenopausal women, religious beliefs, alcohol use, chronic disease, experience of violence, stress and depression were individual-level factors. Locational depression and locational counselling for stress were community-level factors. Among postmenopausal women, experience of violence, stress, depression and perceived health status were individual level factors, and locational counselling for depression was a community level factor. Discussion Suicidal ideation among PPW is affected by both individual and community level factors. Nurses must comprehensively determine what risk factors affect suicidal ideation through various intervention methods-including online, offline, individual and group methods-while considering socio-economic situations. Implications for Practice Mental health nurses should provide targeted biopsychosocial interventions targeting psychosocial and physical problems and promoting the use of community resources to reduce PPW's suicidal ideation.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a broad and heterogeneous group of neurological developmental disorders characterized by impaired social interaction and communication, restricted and repetitive behavioural patterns, and altered sensory processing. Currently, no reliable ASD molecular biomarkers are available. Since immune dysregulation has been supposed to be related with ASD onset and dyslipidaemia has been recognized as an early symptom of biological perturbation, lipid extracts from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), consisting primarily of lymphocytes (T cells, B cells, and NK cells) and monocytes, of 38 children with ASD and their non-autistic siblings were investigated by hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) coupled with electrospray ionization and Fourier-transform mass spectrometry (ESI-FTMS). Performances of two freeware software for data extraction and processing were compared with acquired reliable data regardless of the used informatics. A reduction of variables from 1460 by the untargeted XCMS to 324 by the semi-untargeted Alex

To review the evidence of the association between performance in eight indicators of diabetes care and a patient's race/ethnicity and socioeconomic characteristics. Studies of adult patients with type 2 diabetes in MEDLINE published between January 1, 2000, and December 31, 2018. Systematic review and meta-analysis of regression-based studies including race/ethnicity and income or education as explanatory variables. Meta-analysis was used to quantify differences in performance associated with patient race/ethnicity or socioeconomic characteristics. The systematic review was used to identify potential mechanisms of disparities. Two coauthors separately conducted abstract screening, study exclusions, data extraction, and scoring of retained studies. Estimates in retained studies were extracted and, where applicable, were standardized and converted to odds ratios and standard errors. Performance in intermediate outcomes and process measures frequently exhibited differences by race/ethnicity even after adjustment for socioeconomic, lifestyle, and health factors. Meta-analyses showed black patients had lower odds of HbA1c and blood pressure (BP) control (OR range: 0.67-0.68, P < .05) but higher odds of receiving eye or foot examination (OR range: 1.22-1.47, P < .05) relative to white patients. A high school degree or more was associated with higher odds of HbA1c control and receipt of eye examinations compared to patients without a degree. Meta-analyses of income included a handful of studies and were inconsistently associated with diabetes care performance. Differences in diabetes performance appear to be related to access-related factors such as uninsurance or lacking a usual source of care; food insecurity and trade-offs at very low incomes; and lower adherence among younger and healthier diabetes patients. Patient race/ethnicity and education were associated with differences in diabetes quality measures. Depending on the approach used to rate providers, not adjusting for these patient characteristics may penalize or reward providers based on the populations they serve.

The current study builds upon a previous situation analysis of the extent to which grants from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (Global Fund) are being utilized to support operational research and implementation research (OR/IR) activities in recipient countries. The objective of this follow-up study was to identify approaches and pathways to implement an OR component into grants to the Global Fund, in four sub-Saharan African countries. Special focus was given to the Structured Operational Research and Training IniTiative (SORT IT). The conceptual framework was based on an analysis to identify elements supporting and blocking the integration of OR, called force field analysis, and a behavioural change assessment covering aspects such as opportunity, motivation, capability and triggers to do the integration. Data were collected through online surveys and stakeholder interviews both via telephone/online conference tools and in person in four countries with a high burden of malaria and tuberculosis. These countries were Ghana, Sierra Leone, the United Republic of Tanzania and Zimbabwe. The stakeholders included programme managers, implementation partners, representatives from international organisations, academic and governmental research institutions and other individuals involved in the countries' needs assessment and National Strategic Plan development. We identified opportunities to integrate OR into the countries' programmes during the funding process, the country's needs assessment being the most important one, including the need of OR-related capacity. Both the force field analysis and the behavioural change assessment showed that the necessary elements to integrate OR were present in the countries. Motivation, capability and efficiency were found to be a managerial value omnipresent across stakeholders. However, those elements were influenced by the tendency to favour tangible assets over any abstract ones, such as increasing organisational capacity in OR. In each of the countries assessed, there is potential to integrating OR into the programmes supported by the Global Fund. However, given the relative lack of OR-related capacity and skills encountered, a capacity strengthening tool, such as SORT IT, would be of benefit helping to identify and carry forward OR activities sustainably.

Rhythm is a prominent feature of music. Of the infinite possible ways of organizing events in time, musical rhythms are almost always distributed categorically. Such categories can facilitate the transmission of culture-a feature that songbirds and humans share. We compared rhythms of live performances of music to rhythms of wild thrush nightingale and domestic zebra finch songs. In nightingales, but not in zebra finches, we found universal rhythm categories, with patterns that were surprisingly similar to those of music. Isochronous 1:1 rhythms were similarly common. Interestingly, a bias toward small ratios (around 1:2 to 1:3), which is highly abundant in music, was observed also in thrush nightingale songs. Within that range, however, there was no statistically significant bias toward exact integer ratios (1:2 or 1:3) in the birds. High-ratio rhythms were abundant in the nightingale song and are structurally similar to fusion rhythms (ornaments) in music. In both species, preferred rhythms remained invariant over extended ranges of tempos, indicating natural categories. The number of rhythm categories decreased at higher tempos, with a threshold above which rhythm became highly stereotyped. In thrush nightingales, this threshold occurred at a tempo twice faster than in humans, indicating weaker structural constraints and a remarkable motor proficiency. Together, the results suggest that categorical rhythms reflect similar constraints on learning motor skills across species. The saliency of categorical rhythms across humans and thrush nightingales suggests that they promote, or emerge from, the cultural transmission of learned vocalizations. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

The cancer mortality rate in persons with schizophrenia is higher than it is in the general population. The purpose of this review is to determine why, and to identify solutions. The recent literature points to three groups of reasons why mortality is high: patient reasons such as nonadherence to treatment, provider reasons such as diagnostic overshadowing, and health system reasons such as a relative lack of collaboration between medicine and psychiatry. Strategies for cancer prevention, early detection, and effective treatment are available but difficult to put into practice because of significant barriers to change, namely poverty, cognitive and volitional deficits, heightened stress, stigma, and side effects of antipsychotic medication. The literature makes recommendations about surmounting these barriers and also offers suggestions with respect to support and palliative care in advanced stages of cancer. Importantly, it offers examples of effective collaboration between mental health and cancer care specialists. The high mortality rate from cancer in the schizophrenia population is a matter of urgent concern. Although reasons are identifiable, solutions remain difficult to implement. As we work toward solutions, quality palliative care at the end of life is required for patients with severe mental illness. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

To estimate the incidence of cystic fibrosis in pregnancy and to explore obstetric and neonatal outcomes. A population-based descriptive study using the methodology of the UK Obstetric Surveillance System (UKOSS). All consultant-led maternity units in the UK. All pregnant women with a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis who booked for antenatal care in a UK obstetric unit between March 2015 and February 2017. Prospective case collection identified using UKOSS monthly notification. Incidence, maternal morbidity, maternal mortality, gestation at delivery, neonatal mortality, neonatal morbidity. We report 71 pregnancies over a 2-year period. There was one early miscarriage, four terminations and three sets of twins, resulting in the live birth of 69 infants. There were no maternal deaths. One infant died following spontaneous preterm birth at 29 weeks' gestation. The mean gestation at delivery was 36.2 completed weeks. The mean birthweight centile for gestational age was the 61st centile. We report a positive correlation between both maternal lung function (FEV Pregnancy outcomes are generally good in women with cystic fibrosis. Successful pregnancy is possible even in those women with FEV Pregnant women with cystic fibrosis who have poorer lung function at the beginning of pregnancy have a higher risk of having a premature or smaller baby.

Women living with HIV in low-and-middle-income countries (LMICs) are at high risk of developing cervical cancer due to their immunocompromised status. Screening is an imperative prevention measure for early detection and for ultimately reducing high rates of cervical cancer; however, cervical cancer screening uptake among this group remains low. This systematic review aimed to identify barriers to cervical cancer screening among women living with HIV in LMIC. A comprehensive literature search was undertaken, and an analysis of included studies was completed to abstract major themes related to cervical cancer screening barriers for women living with HIV in LMIC. Lack of cervical cancer and cervical cancer screening knowledge among patients was found to be the most prevalent barrier to cervical cancer screening. Our findings highlight a dire need for interventions to increase knowledge and awareness of cervical cancer screening among women living with HIV in LMIC, along with addressing barriers within health care systems.

Prevention of aversive childhood experiences: social and health policy consequences 

Long-term consequences of aversive childhood experiences: effects on cerebral structures 

Long-term consequences of aversive childhood experiences: effects on the incidence of psychiatric illnesses 

Consequences of aversive childhood experiences: effects on the neuroendocrine system 

In spite of efforts to improve gender diversity in orthopaedic surgery, women remain underrepresented, particularly with increasing academic rank. Opportunities to speak at society meetings are an important component of building a national reputation and achieving academic promotions. However, little is known about the gender diversity of orthopaedic society annual meeting speakers. Data on this topic are needed to determine whether these speaking roles are equitably distributed between men and women, which is fundamental to equalizing professional opportunity in academic orthopaedic surgery. QUESTION/PURPOSES: (1) Is the gender diversity of invited speakers at annual orthopaedic subspecialty society meetings proportional to society membership? (2) Are there differences in the proportion of women invited to speak in technical sessions (defined as sessions on surgical outcomes, surgical technique, nonsurgical musculoskeletal care, or basic science) versus nontechnical sessions (such as sessions on diversity, work-life balance, work environment, social media, education, or peer relationships)? (3) Does the presence of women on the society executive committee and annual meeting program committee correlate with the gender diversity of invited speakers? (4) Do societies with explicit diversity efforts (the presence of a committee, task force, award, or grant designed to promote diversity, or mention of diversity as part of the organization's mission statement) have greater gender diversity in their invited speakers? Seventeen national orthopaedic societies in the United States were included in this cross-sectional study of speakership in 2018. Each society provided the number of men and women members for their society in 2018. The genders of all invited speakers were tabulated using each society's 2018 annual meeting program. Speakers of all credentials and degrees were included. All manuscript/abstract presenters were excluded from all analyses because these sessions are selected by blinded scientific review. A Fisher's exact test was used to compare the proportion of women versus men in nontechnical speaking roles. The relationship between women in society leadership roles and women in all speaking roles was investigated using a linear regression analysis. A chi square test was used to compare the proportion of women in all speaking roles between societies with stated diversity efforts with societies without such initiatives. Overall, women society members were proportionately represented as annual meeting speakers, comprising 13% (4389 of 33,051) of all society members and 14% (535 of 3928) of all annual meeting speakers (% difference 0.6% [95% CI -0.8 to 1.5]; p = 0.60); however, representation of women speakers ranged from 0% to 33% across societies. Women were more likely than men to have nontechnical speaking roles, with 6% (32 of 535) of women's speaking roles being nontechnical, compared with 2% (51 of 3393) of men's speaking roles being nontechnical (OR 4.2 [95% CI 2.7 to 6.5]; p < 0.001). There was a positive correlation between the proportion of women in society leadership roles and the proportion of women in speaking roles (r = 0.73; p < 0.001). Societies with a stated diversity effort had more women as conference speakers; with 19% (375 of 1997) women speakers for societies with a diversity effort compared with 8% (160 of 1931) women speakers in societies without a diversity effort (OR 2.6 [95% CI 2.1 to 3.1]; p < 0.001). Although the percentage of women in speaking roles was proportional to society membership overall, our study identified opportunities to improve gender representation in several societies and in technical versus nontechnical sessions. Positioning more women in leadership roles and developing stated diversity efforts are two interventions that may help societies improve proportional representation; we recommend that all societies monitor the gender representation of speakers at their annual meetings and direct conference organizing committees to create programs with gender equity. Society leadership, national oversight committees, invited speakers, and conference attendees all contribute to the layers of accountability for equitable speakership at annual meetings. National steering committees such as the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Diversity Advisory Board should monitor and report conference speaker diversity data to create systemwide accountability. Conference attendees and speakers should critically examine conference programs and raise concerns if they notice inequities. With these additional layers of accountability, orthopaedic surgery annual meetings may become more representative of their society members.

More than eight in ten of the world's 1.65 million adolescents living with human immunodeficiency virus (ALHIV) live in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Suboptimal adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and poor viral suppression are reported among ALHIV which may in turn compromise the gains achieved so far. The evidence on whether knowing one's own human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) status and self-disclosure to others benefit adherence to ART or not is inconclusive. This review aims to estimate the association between knowing one's HIV status and self-disclosure on adherence to ART among ALHIV in SSA. Comprehensive search strings will be used to identify relevant observational studies published in English up to May 2020 in major databases: Excerpta Medica database (EMBASE), PubMed, and Ovid/MEDLINE. To access African studies and also to freely access subscription-based articles, the African Index Medicus (AIM) and the WHO HINARI databases will be searched. The AfroLib database will be searched to access the gray literature of African studies. We will use the COVIDENCE software for title/abstract screening, full-text screening, quality assessment, and data extraction. Two authors will independently screen retrieved articles, and a third author authorized to resolve conflicts will handle disagreements. The Joanna Briggs Institute's (JBI) critical appraisal tools will be used to assess study quality. Appropriate statistical tests will be conducted to quantify the between studies heterogeneity and for the assessment of publication bias. We will check individual study influence analysis and also do subgroup analysis. The STATA version 14.2 will be used for statistical analysis. A high-level adherence to ART is required to achieve adequate viral suppression and improve quality of life. Consequently, the evidence on how adherence to ART differs with knowledge of one's own HIV status and self-disclosure may help guide interventions aimed at improving adherence to ART.

In August 2008, the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) launched a new policy that required publication of a list of retail consignees for the meat and poultry products part of class I recalls, those with the greatest potential impact on public health. In this study, two recall effectiveness measures (recovery rate and completion time) and a difference-in-difference method were used to examine the effects of retailer disclosures. When controlling for factors previously determined to impact recall effectiveness, including product type, reasons for recall, the amount of food recalled, plant size, and the way the problem was discovered, no significant impact on recall effectiveness was discerned under the current disclosure policy. Recalls for bacterial contamination had higher recovery rates. Larger recalls had lower recovery rates and longer completion times. Recalls issued by very small plants had lower recovery rates. Compared with other stakeholders, government agency discovery of the problem was associated with lower recovery rates. As the U.S. Food and Drug Administration considers a similar retailer disclosure policy for foods regulated under the Food Safety Modernization Act, such lessons from the USDA experience should inform the policy debate.

To explore parents' lived experiences of care and support following stillbirth in urban and rural health facilities. Qualitative, interpretative, guided by Heideggerian phenomenology. Nairobi and Western Kenya, Kampala and Central Uganda. A purposive sample of 75 women and 59 men who had experienced the stillbirth of their baby (≤1 year previously) and received care in the included facilities. In-depth interviews, analysed using Van Manen's reflexive approach. Three main themes were identified; parents described devastating impacts and profound responses to their baby's death. Interactions with health workers were a key influence, but poor communication, environmental barriers and unsupportive facility policies/practices meant that needs were often unmet. After discharge, women and partners sought support in communities to help them cope with the death of their baby but frequently encountered stigma engendering feelings of blame and increasing isolation. Parents in Kenya and Uganda were not always treated with compassion and lacked the care or support they needed after the death of their baby. Health workers in Kenya and Uganda, in common with other settings, have a key role in supporting bereaved parents. There is an urgent need for context and culturally appropriate interventions to improve communication, health system and community support for African parents. Health-system response and community support for parents after stillbirth in Kenya and Uganda are inadequate.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental health is deteriorated during the quarantine period. Mental health status is affected by the quarantine even after the end of it and for an extended period. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Depression levels among nursing/midwifery students during the quarantine period are high. Depression levels among students' family members during the quarantine period are high. Those who are not satisfied with COVID-19 prevention measures and those who believe that COVID-19 and quarantine can cause problems on health, have elevated levels of depression. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Provision of mental health services during the quarantine period should be a priority for the healthcare system. Offering mental health first aid training and support can improve the mental health status of students and their family members. ABSTRACT: Introduction The use of quarantine method has a significant impact on mental health status. Aim This study aimed to assess the levels of depression among bachelor and master university students (nurses/midwives) and their family members' during the quarantine period of COVID-19 pandemic. Method A cross-sectional study was conducted in Vlora University, Albania. Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) was used. Institutional e-mails of all active students were used for their recruitment. Results In total, 863 students and 249 family members participated in the study. The mean PHQ-9 score was 6.220 (SD = 5.803) and 6.280 (SD = 5.857) for students and family members, respectively. Being unsatisfied with COVID-19 prevention measures, beliefs that COVID-19 infection and quarantine process can cause problems on their health status were the key factors for students to be screened positive for mental problems in multiple regression analysis. For parents, the last two factors were found to contribute significantly. Discussion Our findings indicate that quarantine measures have a significant impact on the levels of depression among both university students and their family members. Broader population studies are necessary to safeguard these results. Implications for Practice Provision of mental health services during the quarantine period is of paramount significance. Mental health first aid training and support could benefit both students and their parents significantly. Additionally, follow-up services after the end of quarantine are recommended.

Gliosarcoma (GSM) is a rare subtype of glioblastoma (GBM) that accounts for approximately four percent of high-grade gliomas. There is scarce epidemiological data on patients with GSM as a distinct subgroup of GBM. A systematic literature review was performed of peer-reviewed databases using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines to evaluate the impact of race and ethnicity on survival in patients with GSM compared to patients with GBM. Following initial abstract screening, a total of 138 articles pertaining to GSM and 275 pertaining to GBM met criteria for full-text review, with 5 and 27 articles included in the final analysis for GSM and GBM, respectively. The majority of patients in both cohorts were non-Hispanic Whites, representing 85.6 % of total GSM patients and 87.7 % of GBM patients analyzed. Two GSM studies stratified survival by race, with one reporting the longest median survival for the Hispanic population of 10.6 months and the shortest median survival for the Asian population of 9 months. Among the GBM studies analyzed, the majority of studies reported shorter survival and higher risk of mortality among White Non-Hispanics compared to non-White patients; and of the 15 studies which reported data for the Asian population, 12 studies reported this race category to have the longest survival compared to all other races studied. Younger age, female sex, MGMT promoter methylation status, and adjuvant chemoradiation therapy were associated with improved survival in both GSM and GBM cohorts, although these were not further stratified by race. GSM portends a similarly poor prognosis to other GBM subtypes; however, few studies exist which have examined factors associated with differences in survival between these histologic variants. This review of the literature suggests there is a possible association between race and survival for patients with GBM, however data supporting this conclusion for patients with GSM is lacking. These findings suggest that GSM is a distinct disease from other GBM subtypes, with epidemiologic differences that should be further explored.

This paper introduces a measure of the proximity in ideas using unsupervised machine learning. Knowledge transfers are considered a key driving force of innovation and regional economic growth. I explore knowledge relationships by deriving vector space representations of a patent's abstract text using Document Vectors (Doc2Vec), and using cosine similarity to measure their proximity in ideas space. I illustrate the potential uses of this method with an application to geographic localization in knowledge spillovers. For patents in the same technology field, their normalized text similarity is 0.02-0.05 S.D.s higher if they are located within the same city, compared to patents from other cities. This effect is much smaller than when knowledge transfers are measured using normalized patent citations: local patents receive about 0.23-0.30 S.D.s more local citations than compared to non-local control patents. These findings suggest that the effect of geography on knowledge transfers may be much smaller than the previous literature using citations suggests.

This study investigates the heterogeneous causal linkages between urbanization, the intensity of electric power consumption, water-based pollutant emissions, and GRP in regional China by developing an urbanization-augmented "Stochastic Impacts by Regression on Population, Affluence, and Technology" (STIRPAT) model. A whole country panel of 29 provinces as well as region sub-panels of China, for the period 1999 to 2018, are estimated employing common correlated effects mean group approach (CCEMGA), which offers robustness against heterogeneous characteristics and cross-sectionally dependent series. From the theoretic modeling aspect, the intensity of electric power consumption and urbanization have been introduced as the determinants of water-based pollutant emissions in the STIRPAT modeling framework. Based on empirical results, first, GRP growth has shown appealing behavior in the form of its heterogeneous impacts on water-based pollutant emissions growth in the case of different regions. For instance, its impact is noted to be positive and statistically significant for the western region, which turned positive but statistically insignificant for the intermediate region. And it further turned significantly negative in the case of the eastern region. We call this phenomenon as "development level-based emission mitigation effect." Second, in terms of the impact of GRP growth on urbanization, the "development-based urbanization ladder effect" has been found. Based on heterogeneous causal links, firstly, the existence of a positive bilateral causal link between the intensity of electric power consumption and GRP growth and urbanization and GRP growth has been validated. Secondly, a positive unidirectional causal link emerged from urbanization to the intensity of electric power consumption and water-based pollutant emissions growth. Thirdly, the causal connection between GRP growth and water-based pollutant emissions growth remained very interesting and of mixed nature. Based on empirical findings, useful policies are extended. Graphical abstract.

Phospholipid-based liposomal vesicles are among the most effective delivery options currently available for various classes of anticancer drugs. The patents granted to inventions disclosing details on liposomal delivery module by the US Patent and Trademark Office, European Patent Office, and world patent holdings through WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization) patenting have been sorted based upon liposome, and anticancer keywords within the abstract and claims sections of the patents for the period between 2000 and 2019, thereby disclosing novel liposome formulations encapsulating single, or combination of chemotherapeutic agents that have been far more chemically and physiologically stable, therapeutically efficacious, and comparatively less toxic than their nonliposomal free-drug counterparts. The added stability, site-specific transport, and payload delivery, enhanced bioavailability, fast body clearance, and biocompatibility together with the controlled and sustained delivery-related benefits claimed in the patent literature have been exclusively discussed with a focus on the last 5-year period.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: In mental healthcare environments, there are times when people are forced into care (i.e. to take medications or be hospitalized) when they may not want it. It is difficult to understand how person-centred care (i.e. supporting patients to lead decisions about their care) can occur within coercive settings. There is a gap in the literature about this topic as few studies have explored it. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper examines the research publicly available to better understand if person-centred care can exist at times when people are forced into mental health care. The paper develops a conceptual framework, RAISe (Relationship, Agency, Information, Safe environment), for understanding this matter in order to help people apply this concept in practice In certain situations, with caring and respectful approaches, with and for patients, it is possible to provide person-centred care at times when mental health care is forced. RAISe identifies ways in which this can be done by clinicians while working with people. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: These person-centred approaches need to be applied across mental health systems so that people in forced mental healthcare scenarios continue to experience dignity and respect. This is particularly important for nurses who are often the ones providing direct care to patients in these environments. ABSTRACT: Introduction Person-centred care (PCC) is founded on a theoretical premise that the person who the care issue pertains to directs the decisions relating to them. This can raise ethical challenges when mental health care is forced. Aim This paper reports on how PCC is provided in coercive mental healthcare environments and its outcomes, where reported. Method A scoping review methodology was utilized to search the literature in English until December 2019 (inclusive). Results Twenty articles were included in the review. The information found was diverse and addressed different aspects of PCC in coercive mental healthcare environments. Discussion Overall, this area is understudied. Despite ethical challenges, there are opportunities to provide PCC in coercive mental healthcare environments. A novel conceptual framework, RAISe (Relationship, Agency, Information, Safe environment), is presented to assist in applying PCC in these environments. Further research investigating how to employ these practices across systems should occur. Implications for Practice This review acknowledges the challenges of providing PCC in coercive mental healthcare environments, while suggesting that this type of care can still be delivered in general as well as specific ways. This is especially relevant for nurses who provide direct care within these environments.

Group B Streptococcus, a common commensal in the gut of humans and in the lower genital tract in women, remains an important cause of neonatal mortality and morbidity. The incidence of early onset disease has fallen markedly in countries that test women for carriage at 35-37 weeks of pregnancy and then offer intrapartum prophylaxis with penicillin during labour. Countries that do not test, but instead employ a risk factor approach, have not seen a similar fall. There are concerns about the effect on the neonatal microbiome of widespread use of antibiotic prophylaxis during labour, but so far the effects seem minor and temporary. Vaccination against GBS would be acceptable to most women and GBS vaccines are in the early stages of development. Tweetable abstract: Group B Strep is a key cause of infection, death and disability in young babies. Antibiotics given in labour remain the mainstay of prevention, until a vaccine is available.

The use of drones in public healthcare is suggested as a means to improve efficiency under constrained resources and personnel. This paper begins by framing drones in healthcare as a social experiment where ethical guidelines are needed to protect those impacted while fully realizing the benefits the technology offers. Then we propose an ethical framework to facilitate the design, development, implementation, and assessment of drones used in public healthcare. Given the healthcare context, we structure the framework according to the four bioethics principles: beneficence, non-maleficence, autonomy, and justice, plus a fifth principle from artificial intelligence ethics: explicability. These principles are abstract which makes operationalization a challenge; therefore, we suggest an approach of translation according to a values hierarchy whereby the top-level ethical principles are translated into relevant human values within the domain. The resulting framework is an applied ethics tool that facilitates awareness of relevant ethical issues during the design, development, implementation, and assessment of drones in public healthcare.

Recent scholarship has been divided on whether an observed increase in suicides in the United States among teenagers and preteens (12-18) can be attributed to an increased use in social screen media beginning in 2009. If these concerns are accurate effect sizes for the relationship between screen use and suicide should increase over the 16 years since 2001. The current study used the Florida Youth Risk Behavior Survey data (n = 45,992) from 2001 to 2017, to track effect sizes for screen/depression correlations, controlling for age and gender. A second dataset from the UK Understanding Society dataset (ns for each wave ranged between 3,536 and 4,850) was used to study associations between time spent on social media and emotional problems. Metaregression was be used to examine whether effect sizes increase across time. Results generally did not support the hypothesis that effect sizes between screen and social media use are increasing over time. Aside from the trends over time, for any given year, most effect sizes were below the r = .10 threshold used for interpretation with the exception of computer use which was just at that threshold. It is concluded that screens and social media use are unlikely to bear major responsibility for youth suicide trends. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=76S7cxiaU88.

General Data Protection Regulation came into effect across the European Union in May 2018 but its implications in healthcare are yet to be fully understood. The aim of this study was to identify the fronts and hot topics in research on GDPR in healthcare. We analyzed the relevant records in Scopus through bibliometric and scientometric approach and visualization techniques. A set of 155 records was obtained and processed for co-occurrence analysis of key terms and concept mapping. The number of published papers showed a steep rise in the past two years, mainly by European countries. Analysis of the abstract of the papers showed that data protection, privacy, and big data were the most frequently used terms. Three dominant research fronts of GDPR are 1) general implications of GDPR, 2) technology aspects of GDPR, and 3) GDPR in healthcare service. Blockchain and machine learning are among the remerging topics of GDPR research.

The purpose of this systematic review was to locate and synthesize peer-reviewed evidence regarding the effectiveness of providing suicide prevention education to nursing students. Systematic searches were conducted in seven databases (EMBASE, EmCare, Joanna Briggs, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Scopus, and Web of Science). Results were screened in duplicate at two stages: title and abstract, and full text. Critical appraisal and data extraction were also completed in duplicate. Initial database searching yielded 303 results. Following the addition of seven records from relevant reference lists, and the removal of duplicates, a total of 118 results were included for screening. Eight articles were deemed eligible for inclusion in this review; most (n = 5) were quantitative. While all were conducted within university settings, half were stand-alone education sessions, while the remaining were integrated with existing programmes/courses. The types of education programmes varied considerably across studies, with only three being established, evidence-based programmes. The studies explore a range of outcomes, which have been narratively categorized as enhanced skills, abilities, and self-confidence; development of positive attitudes and beliefs; acquisition of knowledge; and programme experience and evaluation. While there is a small body of evidence indicating that suicide prevention education programmes contribute to improvements in skills, abilities, self-confidence, and attitudes among nursing students, the variability in educational interventions and outcomes, coupled with short-term evaluation time frames, makes it difficult to fully understand the impact of this important suicide prevention strategy.

Paternal obesity negatively influences metabolic outcomes in adult rat offspring. Maternal voluntary physical activity has previously been reported to improve glucose metabolism in adult rat offspring sired by healthy fathers. Here, we investigated whether a structured programme of maternal exercise training before and during gestation can attenuate the negative impacts that paternal obesity has on insulin sensitivity and secretion in female adult offspring. Exercise before and during pregnancy normalised the lower insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle and the lower insulin secretion observed in female offspring sired by obese fathers. This paper presents a feasible, low-cost and translatable intervention strategy that can be applied perinatally to support multifactor interventions to break the cycle of metabolic dysfunction caused by paternal obesity. We investigated whether maternal exercise before and during gestation could attenuate the negative metabolic effects of paternal high-fat diet-induced obesity in female adult rat offspring. Fathers consumed a normal chow or high-fat diet before mating. Mothers exercised on a treadmill before and during gestation or remained sedentary. In adulthood, female offspring were assessed using intraperitoneal insulin and glucose tolerance tests (IPITT and IPGTT, respectively), pancreatic morphology, ex vivo skeletal muscle insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and mitochondrial respiratory function. Paternal obesity impaired whole-body and skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion in adult offspring. Maternal exercise attenuated the lower insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in offspring sired by obese fathers but distal insulin signalling components (p-AKT Thr308 and Ser473, p-TBC1D4 Thr642 and GLUT4) remained unchanged (P > 0.05). Maternal exercise increased citrate synthase activity only in offspring sired by obese fathers. Maternal exercise also reversed the lower insulin secretion in vivo observed in offspring of obese fathers, probably due to an attenuation of the decrease in pancreatic beta cell mass. In summary, maternal exercise before and during pregnancy in rats attenuated skeletal muscle insulin resistance and attenuated the decrease in pancreatic beta cell mass and insulin secretion observed in the female offspring of obese fathers.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) imposes a significant global burden of disease. CRC survival rates are much lower in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). Screening tends to lead to an improvement in cancer detection and the uptake of available treatments and, in turn, to better chances of cancer survival. Most evidence on CRC screening interventions comes from high-income countries. The objective of this scoping review is to map the available literature on the implementation of CRC screening interventions in LMICs. We will conduct a scoping review according to the framework proposed by Arksey and O'Malley (2005). We will search MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science and Google Scholar using a combination of terms such as "colorectal cancer", "screening" and "low-middle-income countries". Studies of CRC screening interventions/programmes conducted in the general adult population in LMICs as well as policy reviews (of interventions in LMICs) and commentaries on challenges and opportunities of delivering CRC screening in LMICs, published in the English language before February 2020 will be included in this review. The title and abstract screen will be conducted by one reviewer and two reviewers will screen full-texts and extract data from included papers, independently, into a data charting template that will include criteria from an adapted template for intervention description and replication checklist and implementation considerations. The presentation of the scoping review will be reported according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis extension for Scoping Reviews guidance. There are no ethical concerns. The results will be used to inform colorectal screening interventions in LMICs. We will publish the findings in a peer-reviewed journal and present them at relevant conferences.

This paper investigates the asymmetric impact of energy consumption and carbon dioxide (CO

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Between policing and health, there are many shared issues. Mental health distress and crises and caring for people who may be vulnerable are priority areas. Working together in partnership is challenging, and fragmented systems and processes are the result. This leads to poor experiences for the police, health professions and the public. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper describes an event that brought together 26 stakeholders involved in law enforcement and public health. The aim of this work was to identify the biggest shared challenges that they experience in their day to day jobs. The five key priorities were as follows: vulnerability; mental health crisis; decision-making around assessment and triage across professional groups and professional roles; peer support and organizational well-being; and information and data sharing. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This paper demonstrates the strength of bringing partners together throughout law enforcement and public health, making proper time to actually discuss the "big issues" which affect them, how they each experience these issues, and how they might have overcome these within their own professions. Only through working together as partners and having everyone on the same page with the shared priorities can we really start to make a difference in the areas and with the people who matter. The focus on "vulnerability" and "mental health crisis" demonstrates the complexity of the issues between the professions, and that they need to find effective ways to work together to support people. No one professional group can solve inter-professional challenges alone. ABSTRACT: Introduction Law enforcement professions now assume more responsibility for tackling mental health issues alongside public health colleagues than ever before. The term "vulnerability" is frequently used within Law Enforcement and Public Health (LEPH) to identify those requiring emergency mental health care. However, there are ongoing challenges within LEPH to determine whose responsibility this is. Aim To co-create the most important priorities for LEPH research in Scotland. Method The paper describes a collaborative workshop which brought together an Expert Advisory Group (EAG) of 26 senior stakeholders, from academia, policing, mental health nursing, psychiatry, paramedics, emergency medicine, people with lived experience, policy makers and third sector. Results The five key priorities included: vulnerability; mental health crisis; decision-making around assessment and triage across professional groups and professional roles; peer support and organizational well-being; and information and data sharing. Discussion The paper discusses the EAG group event as a co-production process, focusing on how key LEPH research priorities were derived. Implications for practice This paper demonstrates the inextricable link between co-production and co-creation of value via EAG group consensus on LEPH research priorities. Shared vision and professional will are not enough to ensure progress: there must also be shared policy, knowledge and access.

Significant barriers exist for youth in obtaining mental health services. These barriers are exacerbated by growing demand, attributed partially to children and adolescents who have repeat hospital admissions. The purpose of this study was to identify demographic, socioeconomic and clinical predictors of readmission to inpatient psychiatric services in New Brunswick, Canada. Key demographic, support and clinical predictors of readmission were identified. The New Brunswick Discharge Abstract Database (DAD) was used to compile a cohort of all children and adolescents ages 3-19 years with psychiatric hospital admissions between 1 April 2003 and 31 March 2014 (N = 3825). Primary analyses consisted of Kaplan-Meier survival methods with log-rank tests to assess time-to-readmission variability, and Cox regression to identify significant predictors of readmission. In total, 27.8% of admitted children and adolescents experienced at least one readmission within the 10-year period, with 57.3% readmitted to hospital within 90 days following discharge. Bivariate results indicated that male, upper-middle socioeconomic status (SES) youths aged 11-15 years from nonrural communities were most likely to be readmitted. Notable predictors of increased readmission likelihood were older age, being male, higher SES, referral to care by medical practitioner, discharge to another health facility, psychosis, and previous psychiatric admission. A significant portion of the variance in readmission was accounted for by youth demographic characteristics (i.e. age, SES, geographic location) and various support structures, including referrals to inpatient care and aftercare support services. Readmission to inpatient psychiatric care among youth is affected by a number of multifaceted risk factors across individual, environmental and clinical domains. This study used provincial population-scale longitudinal administrative data to demonstrate the influence of various individual and demographic factors on likelihood of readmission, which is notably absent from the majority of studies that make use of smaller, short-term data samples. Ensuring that multiple factors outside of the clinical context are considered when examining readmission among youth may contribute to a more thorough understanding of youth hospitalization patterns.

Behavioral and neural evidence indicates that young children who engage in more conversations with their parents have better later language skills such as vocabulary and academic language abilities. Previous studies find that the extent to which parents engage in conversational turn-taking with children varies considerably. How, then, can we promote extended conversations between parents and their children? Instead of asking parents to engage in longer turn-taking episodes, we provided parents with information on conversational content that we hypothesized would lead to increased episodes of longer, more sustained conversational turn-taking. Specifically, we found that boosting the frequency of parent-child talk about abstract, non-present concepts - decontextualized language - led to an increase in dyadic conversational turn-taking during home mealtimes several weeks later.

Cognitive deficit in psychotic illness is intensively studied, different cognitive subtypes have been suggested. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of studies in patients with schizophrenia and their relatives searching for endophenotypes of the disease. The aim of our study was to investigate cognitive performance and cognitive subtypes in the siblings of the patients. Four groups of subjects were included: patients with a first episode of psychotic illness, the siblings of these patients, and two control groups. All the study subjects (N = 84) had a battery of neuropsychological tests that measured basic cognitive domains - memory, executive functions, attention, visual-spatial skills, language skills and psychomotor speed - administered to them. The data were assessed with pairwise t-tests for group comparisons. The siblings were distributed into three groups according to their cognitive performance: non-deficit, partial deficit, and global deficit. Subsequently, the patients were assigned into three groups corresponding to their siblings' performance. Our results revealed attenuation of abstract thinking in the siblings compared to the controls. As expected, the patients showed impairment across all cognitive domains. The patients and siblings demonstrated similar profiles in each subtype, in the severity of their impairment, and in their patterns of cognitive performance. Our results suggest that the cognitive profile can be considered as an endophenotype of psychotic disorders.

Health systems often emphasize technical skills to reduce iatrogenic injuries. Nontechnical skills such as clinical and communication skills are mostly overlooked or not readily retrievable from medical records. Our aim was to estimate the association of technical and nontechnical skills of endoscopists with indemnity payments to patients after endoscopic perforations. This is an observational registry-based study of closed claims against gastroenterologists involved in endoscopic perforations. We analyzed 175 closed claims related to perforations, all of which involved allegations of improper performance of the endoscopic procedure. Inadequate communication (n = 71, 41%) and clinical judgment (n = 60, 34%) on the part of the endoscopists were observed. Inadequate communication and clinical judgment were associated with over 3-fold odds of indemnity payment (odds ratio [OR] 3.31; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.46-7.48, and OR 3.18; 95% CI, 1.44-7.01, respectively). However, if there were no communication breakdown or clinical judgment issues and the only allegation was poor technical skill, the odds of indemnity payments were less than half of those cases (OR 0.43; 95% CI 0.15-0.80). There was no evidence of a statistically significant interaction among age, procedure type, trainee involvement, clinical severity, need for surgery, and procedure-related death. We observed that inadequate communication and clinical judgment were associated with indemnity payment, independent of the severity of clinical outcomes. On the other hand, cases wherein there was an allegation of poor technical skills alone, without communication breakdown or clinical judgment issues, were associated with favorable legal outcomes for the defendant. (See the Visual Abstract at http://links.lww.com/AJG/B568.).

Abstract. Intimate partner violence (IPV) is an important risk factor for perinatal depression (PND). But IPV's impact on the natural prognosis of PND symptoms is not well understood. We tested two hypotheses: (1) pregnant women with IPV experiences will exhibit more severe PND symptoms than women without IPV experience; (2) IPV experience will impede the recovery prognosis of PND. We also explored the contribution of IPV to PND comparing with other risk factors. The sample is comprised of 813 pregnant women followed through perinatal period in Hunan, China. We assessed IPV experience using items from the Short Form of the Revised Conflict Tactics Scale (CTS2S), and PND symptoms via the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPSD). We conducted Linear Mixed-effects Model to compare the trajectories of PND symptoms between victims and non-victims and a multistage Generalised Estimating Equations Model to explore salient factors on the trajectory of PND symptoms. There were 90 participants (11.07%) who reported IPV experience in the past 12 months. With respect to physical, psychological and sexual violence, the prevalence was 4.55% (37/813), 9.23% (75/813) and 2.34% (19/813). Victims reported more severe PND symptoms (t = 5.30, p < 0.01) and slower decreasing slope of trajectories (t = 28.89, p < 0.01). The PND trajectory was associated with IPV experience (OR = 3.78; 95% CI 1.39-10.26), social support (OR = 0.93; 95% CI 0.88-0.97), positive coping strategies (OR = 0.85; 95% CI 0.80-0.91), negative coping strategies (OR = 1.25; 95% CI 1.14-1.37) and monthly income of $0.15-$298.36 (compared to no income, OR = 0.0075; 95% CI 0.00052-0.11). The findings suggest the reported prevalence of IPV is lower in Hunan than most of the previous studies during perinatal period in other provinces of China, and IPV victimisation is associated with increased severity and slowed prognosis of PND symptoms. Future studies that screen for victimisation and establish its explicit mechanism to the poorer prognosis of PND symptoms would benefit the prevention and treatment of PND.

Background

In families with a child diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), siblings who do not have SMA could still be genetic carriers of the condition. This study is the first to explore how siblings of patients with SMA learn about the condition and their genetic risk. In-depth, semi-structured interviews were conducted with several parents and unaffected siblings of people with SMA types II and III in Australia. Thematic analysis was performed. Siblings described learning about SMA gradually over time through conversations with their parents and other sources, including the Internet, biology classes and support groups. Parents and unaffected siblings described challenges in family communication due to the emotional intensity associated with having SMA in the family. Most siblings did not report learning from their family how the inheritance of SMA related to their own genetic carrier risk and possible reproductive implications. Siblings described their parents as being open and honest in communicating about SMA; however, this study found that communication before the age of understanding abstract concepts, in combination with the emotional intensity of SMA, resulted in gaps in knowledge about SMA.

Purpose Our study aimed to analyze the characteristics of content word usage in mother's child-directed speech ( CDS) toward children with autism spectrum disorder compared to mother's CDS toward typically developing children. Method We analyzed the lexical characteristics of CDS of mothers of children with autism (16 dyads) and compared them from a language developmental perspective to mothers of 20 typical children at the same level of expressive language development. Results Results suggest that mothers of children with autism use equal amounts of content words at the same language level, but the content consists of significantly more concrete nouns and active verbs and rarely the use of abstract nouns, stative verbs, adjectives, and adverbs. Conclusion This study suggests that professionals and parents of children with autism should be aware of the importance of varying their language use of content words.

Residential histories linked to cancer registry data provide new opportunities to examine cancer outcomes by neighborhood socioeconomic status (SES). We examined differences in regional stage colon cancer survival estimates comparing models using a single neighborhood SES at diagnosis to models using neighborhood SES from residential histories. We linked regional stage colon cancers from the New Jersey State Cancer Registry diagnosed from 2006 to 2011 to LexisNexis administrative data to obtain residential histories. We defined neighborhood SES as census tract poverty based on location at diagnosis and across the follow-up period through 31 December 2016 based on residential histories (average, time-weighted average, time-varying). Using Cox proportional hazards regression, we estimated associations between colon cancer and census tract poverty measurements (continuous and categorical), adjusted for age, sex, race/ethnicity, regional substage, and mover status. Sixty-five percent of the sample was nonmovers (one census tract); 35% (movers) changed tract at least once. Cases from tracts with >20% poverty changed residential tracts more often (42%) than cases from tracts with <5% poverty (32%). Hazard ratios (HRs) were generally similar in strength and direction across census tract poverty measurements. In time-varying models, cases in the highest poverty category (>20%) had a 30% higher risk of regional stage colon cancer death than cases in the lowest category (<5%) (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.04, 1.63). Residential changes after regional stage colon cancer diagnosis may be associated with a higher risk of colon cancer death among cases in high-poverty areas. This has important implications for postdiagnostic access to care for treatment and follow-up surveillance. See video abstract: http://links.lww.com/EDE/B705.

Body Dysmorphic Disorder: Diagnosis, Treatment and Challenges in the General Practice 

Along with the development of urbanization and informationization, an increasing attention has been attracted to CO

Population prevalence estimates by the World Health Organisation suggest that 1 in 160 children worldwide has an Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Accessing respite care services for children with an ASD can often be a daunting and exhaustive process, with parents sometimes forced to access acute hospital services as an initial point of contact for respite care or in a crisis situation. To gain an in-depth understanding of accessing respite care for children with an ASD, from the perspectives of parents, a systematic review of the evidence on parent's experiences and views of respite care for children with an ASD at the acute and primary interface was undertaken. Pubmed, Embase, CINAHL and PsycINFO were systematically searched. Studies identified as relevant based on predetermined eligibility criteria were selected for inclusion. The search strategy also targeted unpublished studies and grey literature. Qualitative data and qualitative components of mixed method studies that represented the experiences of parents accessing respite care for children with an ASD were eligible for inclusion. A meta-aggregative approach was used during data synthesis. Database searching elicited 430 records of which 291 studies remained after removal of duplicates. These 291 studies were screened for title and abstract by two reviewers resulting in 31 studies to be screened at full text and assessed for eligibility. Six studies met the inclusion criteria and a further additional study also met the inclusion criteria during a manual search. As a result, 7 studies were selected for the review as set out in Fig. 1. In the absence of appropriate services and defined pathways to support services such as respite care, overwhelmed parents and community providers of mental health resources may not be in a position to meet the specific needs of children with an ASD and their families which may be contributing to a direct increase in hospitalizations. This systematic review identified a number of barriers to respite care, of which the findings can be used to inform future service development and further research. Knowledge of parental experiences in caring for a child with an ASD is vital in addressing the need and type of respite care required for children with an ASD. PROSPERO CRD42018106629.

To determine the performance of a glycosylated fibronectin (GlyFn) point-of-care (POC) test for pre-eclampsia (PE) in a large Southeast Asian cohort (India) in comparison to previously described biomarkers. A total of 798 pregnant women at ≥20 weeks of gestation were enrolled in a prospective case-control study. Study participants included 469 normotensive women with urinary mg protein/mmol creatinine ratio <0.3, 135 with PE (hypertension with urinary mg protein/mmol creatinine ratio ≥0.3) and 194 with gestational hypertension (hypertension with urinary mg protein/mmol creatinine ratio <0.3). GlyFn levels were determined using a POC device and PIGF, sFlt-1 and PAPPA2 levels were determined by immunoassay. Performance was assessed using logistic regression modelling and receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Classification performance and positive and negative predictive values are reported at specific thresholds. Increased levels of GlyFn, soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) and pregnancy-associated placental protein A2 (PAPPA2), and decreased levels of placental growth factor (PlGF) were significantly associated (P < 0.01) with clinically defined PE. Area under the ROC (AUROC) values with 95% confidence intervals were: GlyFn, 0.99 (0.98-0.99); PlGF, 0.96 (0.94-0.98); sFlt-1, 0.86 (0.83-0.89); and PAPPA2, 0.96 (0.94-0.97). Of subjects with GH, 48% were positive for more than two PE biomarkers, and 70% of these delivered preterm. The Lumella™ GlyFn POC test has been validated in a low/middle-income country setting for PE diagnosis and may be a useful adjunctive tool for early identification, appropriate triage, and improved outcomes. The Lumella™ point-of-care test had excellent performance in diagnosing PE in a large Southeast Asian cohort.

Online grooming is an active communicative entrapment network involving a wide range of techniques. The interactions that groomers have with minors online are complex. The purpose of the present literature review was to contribute to the existing knowledge base regarding online sex offender typologies, predatory tactics and techniques. We conducted a review of the current literature by an initial database research of papers published since 1990. Three independent reviewers selected relevant articles, initially based on title and abstract analysis, then by full text in order to make a final determination. After the final selection, a total of 21 articles were reviewed. Overall, abundant data describing both groomer characteristics and grooming strategies are available in the literature, with authors attempting to analyze and adapt these to ever-complex models. However, the various models often feel redundant, determining a certain difficulty in understanding which would be the most suitable model to apply, making comparing data from different studies oftentimes troublesome. In our opinion, it would be desirable to reach a consensus on fewer univocally-interpretable models that would be easier to adopt as preventive tools against online grooming, in combination with other strategies. The present study may provide parents and guardians with information useful for keeping their youth safer while online, as well as data that may assist in the development of policy recommendations and prevention strategies, overall aiming to reduce the phenomenon of online grooming.

Homicide is the most serious form of violence with a negative impact on the population. It is broadly studied in the scientific field and disseminated in print and in the virtual media. The scope of this article is to locate papers in national and international journals, seeking the synthesis of knowledge and the incorporation of the applicability of the results of significant studies. It involved an integrative review of the SciELO, PubMed and LILACS databases of articles published between 2006 and 2016. The following key words were researched: Homicide and Brazil. The publications were selected by the title, abstract and methodology. For homicide and health studies in Brazil, 427 papers were found, of which 98 were selected. There were publications with emphasis on the national scenario, followed by the state of São Paulo and Pernambuco. The quantitative study was the most used, with collection of secondary data. The papers dealt with homicides in the population in general (48%), Femicide (14.3%) and Social Determinants (7.1%). The Brazilian scientific production on homicide and health is on the increase. It is important that researchers, analysts and editors turn their attention to the development of papers in this area, aiming to improve the quality of published articles.

This paper analyses the relationship between studies on the health of indigenous people in public health and public policies aimed at reducing ethnic-racial inequalities. This selection assumes that scientific production on the subject is part of the societal effort to confront health inequities and guarantee the rights and public policies of indigenous people. In total, 3,417 papers were found between 1956 and 2018, and 418 were selected for analysis from systematic literature mapping in the PubMed/Medline, Scopus, Lilacs, Sociological Abstract, and Web of Science databases. Initially, the literature is marked by the biomedical benchmark. After 1990, publications and dialogue with the human and social sciences are expanded, including the analysis of the implementation of indigenous health policy. We identified that the knowledge produced is associated with the political, social, and scientific transformations of the health reform and the indigenous agenda. Scientific production increased in 2010. We can conclude that the knowledge guiding the scientific production on indigenous health was established from a horizon politically implicated with the studied populations and improved Indigenous Health Subsystem.

Accessibility of sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services in many lower-and-middle-income countries (LMICs) and humanitarian settings remains limited, particularly for young people. Young people facing humanitarian crises are also at higher risk for mental health problems, which can further exacerbate poor SRH outcomes. This review aimed to explore, describe and evaluate SRH interventions for young people in LMIC and humanitarian settings to better understand both SRH and psychosocial components of interventions that demonstrate effectiveness for improving SRH outcomes. We conducted a systematic review of studies examining interventions to improve SRH in young people in LMIC and humanitarian settings following Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analysis (PRISMA) standards for systematic reviews. Peer-reviewed journals and grey literature from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2018 were included. Two authors performed title, abstract and full-text screening independently. Data was extracted and analyzed using a narrative synthesis approach and the practice-wise clinical coding system. The search yielded 813 results, of which 55 met inclusion criteria for full-text screening and thematic analysis. Primary SRH outcomes of effective interventions included: contraception and condom use skills, HIV/STI prevention/education, SRH knowledge/education, gender-based violence education and sexual self-efficacy. Common psychosocial intervention components included: assertiveness training, communication skills, and problem-solving. Findings suggest that several evidence-based SRH interventions may be effective for young people in humanitarian and LMIC settings. Studies that use double blind designs, include fidelity monitoring, and focus on implementation and sustainability are needed to further contribute to this evidence-base.

On a near daily basis, medicines make the news. Abstract topics such as international pricing policy or medicines patents, and concrete topics such as medicines shortages are regularly reported on. In this article, we summarise a 40-year-history of medicines policy in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we briefly touch upon future directions in this area.

Adequate calcium (Ca) intake is required for bone mineralization in children. We assessed Ca intake from diet and medications in children with CKD stages 4-5 and on dialysis (CKD4-5D) and age-matched controls, comparing with the UK Reference Nutrient Intake (RNI) and international recommendations. Three-day prospective diet diaries were recorded in 23 children with CKD4-5, 23 with CKD5D, and 27 controls. Doses of phosphate (P) binders and Ca supplements were recorded. Median dietary Ca intake in CKD4-5D was 480 (interquartile range (IQR) 300-621) vs 724 (IQR 575-852) mg/day in controls (p = 0.00002), providing 81% vs 108% RNI (p = 0.002). Seventy-six percent of patients received < 100% RNI. In CKD4-5D, 40% dietary Ca was provided from dairy foods vs 56% in controls. Eighty percent of CKD4-5D children were prescribed Ca-based P-binders, 15% Ca supplements, and 9% both medications, increasing median daily Ca intake to 1145 (IQR 665-1649) mg/day; 177% RNI. Considering the total daily Ca intake from diet and medications, 15% received < 100% RNI, 44% 100-200% RNI, and 41% > 200% RNI. Three children (6%) exceeded the National Kidney Foundation Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI) upper limit of 2500 mg/day. None with a total Ca intake < RNI was hypocalcemic, and only one having > 2 × RNI was hypercalcemic. Seventy-six percent of children with CKD4-5D had a dietary Ca intake < 100% RNI. Restriction of dairy foods as part of a P-controlled diet limits Ca intake. Additional Ca from medications is required to meet the KDOQI guideline of 100-200% normal recommended Ca intake. Graphical abstract.

Many parents find out that their unborn baby has a difference in their health, development, or genetics. This news is often unexpected and can be distressing and traumatic, which can lead to anxiety. There is a gap in support for parents. This paper offers a story of the lived experience of the first-author, a mental health nurse who was told that her baby had a difference late in pregnancy. The narrative moves through the anxiety and difficulties faced when falling between gaps in the systems. This paper identifies the need for more support for parents who receive a prenatal diagnosis. This support is within the mental health nurse scope of practice across a range of settings and services. People who have been given a psychiatric diagnosis have been excluded from other studies that explore the experience of the unexpected news of a congenital anomaly. Research in this area is indicated. Mental health nurses are well-positioned to address the gap in psychosocial support for parents who have received a prenatal diagnosis. As clinicians who are recognized to deliver federally funded pregnancy support counselling, psychosocial support is within the mental health nurse scope of practice. Some parents will require a higher level of support, assessment and intervention when they experience reactive mental illness or pre-existing mental illness is exacerbated. Furthermore, people who have received a psychiatric diagnosis have been excluded from studies that explore the experience of receiving a prenatal diagnosis. This exclusion has resulted in a gap in knowledge. Introduction Expectant parents who receive a prenatal diagnosis of a congenital anomaly often experience shock, distress and a heightened risk of mental illness. Aim This paper aimed to highlight the gap in psychosocial support for parents who receive a prenatal diagnosis through the personal narrative of a mental health nurse who received a third-trimester diagnosis. Method The first-author reviewed her medical records and photos to recall moments of the experience and prompt reflection. Findings The narrative moved through the shock, guilt and subsequent pathological anxiety that followed a prenatal diagnosis at 32-week gestation and the option to terminate. Discussion The gap in psychosocial supports for parents who receive a prenatal congenital anomaly diagnosis raises the risk to parental mental health and potentially confounds the risk to the baby. Mental health nurses are well-positioned as service providers to fill this gap. Implications for Practice The provision of psychosocial support after a prenatal diagnosis is within the mental health nurse scope of practice. This support may be provided through pregnancy support counselling, innovative nurse-led perinatal mental health services or as additional support to a parent with the lived experience of mental illness who receives a prenatal diagnosis of a congenital anomaly.

High-risk pregnancy refers to a pregnancy that negatively affects the health of the mother, the baby, or both. High-risk pregnancy evokes a range of emotional and psychological experiences for the expectant mother, and can adversely affect both the mother and the baby's health. Medical research on high-risk pregnancy abounds, while women's emotional/psychological experiences are not sufficiently documented, and hence much less attention and/or programming is directed to support women with high risk pregnancies. The aim of this review is to present published evidence of how studies reported on the emotional and psychological experiences of a woman's high-risk pregnancy journey. The systematic review examined qualitative studies over a 10 year period that were published between January 2006 and June 2017. These studies were identified on 10 databases. The study utilised three stages of review (i.e. abstract reading, title reading, and full-text reading) and for a successful conduction of the meta-synthesis, this study applied one of the phases provided by Noblit and Hare. The findings provide empirical evidence that women's emotional and psychological experiences (i.e. shock, fear, frustration, grief, isolation and loneliness, anger, sadness, guilt, and mental health disorder) are evident throughout their high-risk pregnancies experience.

Part of the controversy surrounding competition and health care stems from the complexity connected with delineating the applicability of competition law - encompassing both the provisions governing anticompetitive agreements and abuse of dominance and the state-aid rules. Cases determined at the European Union (EU) level within the past 30 years have developed a broad framework, and notable trends have emerged - for example, a distinction between health care providers and managing bodies (purchasers). The former have been subject to an 'abstract' test and the latter to a more sophisticated 'concrete' test. In this paper, we chart the development of the EU courts' approach to developing the 'undertaking' concept in health care and examine the current EU competition law framework with a view to identifying future directions. van de Gronden has recently identified a 'three-prong' test of exemption from competition law in connection with the recent CEPPB case: firstly, where the supply of services is predominantly dependent upon public financing; secondly, the public funding aims to achieve a public interest goal and thirdly, the activities concerned are closely related to this public interest goal. We examine this test in a health care context, drawing on our findings regarding Dutch competition reforms.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Coercive interventions (CI) in emergency psychiatry face increasing criticism, as they can be an emotional, even traumatic event for all persons involved. They are thus considered the last resort. The use of coercive interventions differs widely with regard to type and frequency of measures across different countries and institutions. Individual staff characteristics, such as attitudes towards coercion, may play a vital role in the management of aggression. Little is known about the influence of emotions of staff members on CI, but they are likely to play an important role. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Most staff members surveyed had a rather critical view of coercion and considered it a "necessary evil." Staff members with the most work experience had a more critical view of coercion in comparison with less experienced staff. Nurses rated coercion more positively than did psychiatrists or psychologists. Emotions play an important role in decision-making processes. The current study systematically asked for accompanying emotions during the application of CI and looked for individual differences. A majority of the participants experienced compassion; about half felt helplessness, grief or anxiety. Almost 20% stated that they felt a sense of power. Older staff members more often felt anger or guilt; women felt less power than men did. Nurses felt more desperation than other occupational groups. Staff members consider reflective interventions, such as team supervisions or post-seclusion/restraint debriefings with the patient, as important. Nevertheless, only half reported that these interventions are carried out routinely. Staff members believe that certain risk factors (including stress, low staffing, a fully occupied ward and the presence of particular staff members) enhance the probability of CI. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: To reduce the use of coercive interventions, we recommend that psychiatric teams include highly experienced staff members as work experience has a positive effect on the attitudes towards coercive interventions. Structured post-seclusion/restraint debriefings and team supervisions are considered helpful by staff members and are relatively easy to implement on acute wards. Enhancing staff members' ability to reflect on their own attitudes, emotions and actions is likely to reduce coercive interventions. ABSTRACT: Introduction Little is known about staff attitudes towards coercive interventions (CI) and emotions accompanying these measures. Aim The current study assessed attitudes, views on reflective interventions and accompanying emotions of different occupational groups towards CI, as well as factors, that increase the probability of CI. Method Staff members (N = 138) of a large psychiatric hospital in Germany were assessed using the Staff Attitude to Coercion Scale (SACS) and newly developed items assessing staff members' emotions and views on coercion. Results Experienced staff members were most critical of coercion. Nurses rated coercion significantly more positively than other staff. A majority experienced compassion; about half felt helplessness, grief or anxiety. Almost 20% felt a sense of power. Nurses felt the most desperation. Participants strongly desired reflective measures such as post-seclusion/restraint debriefings with patients. According to staff members, stress on the wards and low staffing increases the probability of CI. Discussion The study assessed accompanying emotions during the application of CI. Attitudes towards coercion and emotions are associated with individual staff characteristics (e.g. profession, work experience). Implications The presence of experienced staff members may help prevent CI. Staff consider reflective interventions helpful in reducing CI.

Depression and Violence: A Contradiction? 

Physical contact between humans and their pets increases the potential for zoonotic disease transmission. This study used the 2016 U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Food Safety Survey to compare the food handling behaviors of pet owners and non-pet owners, because poor food handling and hygiene habits can increase the likelihood of disease transmission from animals to humans. Results show that both pet ownership and pet type were important in predicting food safety behaviors. After controlling for sociodemographic factors included in this study (gender, age, household income, household size, and race or ethnicity), pet ownership was significantly associated with overall food safety practices and, more specifically, with better hand washing behaviors, kitchen cleaning, and ownership and use of a food thermometer, as well as a greater awareness of foodborne pathogens. Cat owners and cat-dog owners had better overall food safety practices and better hand washing behaviors compared with those of dog owners. After controlling for sociodemographic variables, there were no significant associations between pet ownership and perception of risks associated with unsafe food handling practices.

A parent's mental illness was viewed as a loss, like a death, causing profound grief. I learned how important parent-child communication is as an important factor in managing my own grief. A child's grief, in this case, from loss of a parent due to mental illness, as in death, was profound at the time and did affect many aspects of my life. The failure to intervene in a timely fashion impaired effective resolution of that grief. Assessment of family dynamics and communication is critical to building coping skills for any young child dealing with loss of parental support due to mental illness. Early intervention with young children in need of emotional support and security is needed to assist them with effective adaptation to grief and loss. It is expected that loss of a parent from death will undoubtedly cause children to grieve. With supportive interventions, children can recover and grow into healthy, well-adjusted adults. Severe mental illness in a parent, however, also creates loss by altering the parent-child relationship, often leaving children confused, frightened and feeling alone. In the past, family members, especially the remaining parent, might not have recognized the symptoms of a grieving child and the system at that time was not well prepared to assist them in meeting that need. This is the story of one such child.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The loss of a parent for an adult can be devastating and can impact other relationships. The adult, in absence of parental love and support, may question their own identity. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: A narrative is used to explain the adults' experience of parental death and their new identity of being orphaned. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Increased awareness for adults grieving the loss of a parent(s), as to the normalcy of feeling orphaned Adults grieving the death of a parent(s) are provided resources and support in addressing their grieving process. ABSTRACT: Introduction When a parent dies during their child's adulthood, the life of the adult is altered as the familiarity of parental love and safety changes. The isolation and loneliness penetrates deeply as the orphaned adult must now navigate their world in absence of the most significant people in their lives, their parents. Aim To assist persons affected by parental death in understanding the normalcy of feeling orphaned while grieving. Method The use of a personal narrative to provide mental health support to others. Results The resumption of a routine that existed before parental death is possible, but takes time. Intermittent periods of grief can occur throughout one's life. Discussion When grief interrupts one's ability to function daily and the affected adult has relationships impacted by their parent's death, it is recommended that the adult seek mental health treatment. Implications for Practice Narratives can be used with persons affected by parental loss, to provide an example of normal versus complicated grieving and identify when mental health treatment is needed.

The ophthalmological appraisal differs significantly in the different areas of law, so there are some different causalities and standards of proof and, above all, the assessment is very different. For the three important sub-areas of private accident insurance, statutory accident insurance as well as disability law and social compensation law, there are abstract tabular guidelines which form the essential basis for a comparable and thus fair assessment. The basics of the assessment in these fields of law are presented in a comparative way, with particular emphasis on causality.

The impact of adolecent motherhood on child development in preschool children- identification of maternal risk factors 

The added value of dried blood spot (DBS) samples complementing the information obtained from commonly routine doping control matrices is continuously increasing in sports drug testing. In this project, a robotic-assisted non-destructive hematocrit measurement from dried blood spots by near-infrared spectroscopy followed by a fully automated sample preparation including strong cation exchange solid-phase extraction and evaporation enabled the detection of 46 lower molecular mass (< 2 kDa) peptide and non-peptide drugs and drug candidates by means of LC-HRMS. The target analytes included, amongst others, agonists of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor, the ghrelin receptor, the human growth hormone receptor, and the antidiuretic hormone receptor. Furthermore, several glycine derivatives of growth hormone-releasing peptides (GHRPs), arguably designed to undermine current anti-doping testing approaches, were implemented to the presented detection method. The initial testing assay was validated according to the World Anti-Doping Agency guidelines with estimated LODs between 0.5 and 20 ng/mL. As a proof of concept, authentic post-administration specimens containing GHRP-2 and GHRP-6 were successfully analyzed. Furthermore, DBS obtained from a sampling device operating with microneedles for blood collection from the upper arm were analyzed and the matrix was cross-validated for selected parameters. The introduction of the hematocrit measurement method can be of great value for doping analysis as it allows for quantitative DBS applications by managing the well-recognized "hematocrit effect." Graphical abstract.

Action on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) needs to become real and impactful, taking a "whole systems" perspective on levers for systems change. This article reviews what we have learned over the past century about the large-scale outcome of health inequality, and what we know about the behaviour of complex social systems. This combined knowledge provides lessons on the nature of inequality and what effective action on our big goals, like the SDGs, might look like. It argues that economic theories and positivist social theories which have dominated the last 150 years have largely excluded the nature of human connections to each other, and the environment. This exclusion of intimacy has legitimatised arguments that only value-free economic processes matter for macro human systems, and only abstract measurement constitutes valuable social science. Theories of complex systems provide an alternative perspective. One where health inequality is viewed as emergent, and causes are systemic and compounding. Action therefore needs to be intensely local, with power relationships key to transformation. This requires conscious and difficult intervention on the intolerable accumulation of resources; improved reciprocity between social groups; and reversal of system flows, which at present ebb away from the local and those already disadvantaged.

Myopathy, lactic acidosis, and sideroblastic anemia (MLASA) is a rare mitochondrial disorder characterized by MLASA. Variable features of this condition include failure to thrive, and developmental delay or intellectual disability. Additional symptoms consist of cognitive impairment, skeletal and dental abnormalities, delayed motor milestones, cardiomyopathy, dysphagia, and respiratory insufficiency. MLASA has previously been associated with mutations in pseudouridylate synthase 1 (PUS1) and YARS2. PUS1 encodes the nuclear PUS1 enzyme, which is located in both the nucleus and the mitochondria. PUS1 converts uridine into pseudouridine in several cytosolic and mitochondrial transfer RNA positions and increases the efficiency of protein synthesis in both compartments.In the present report, we report on 2 Turkish sisters 4 and 11 of years with an MLASA plus phenotype. Both patients have sideroblastic anemia, lactic acidosis, failure to thrive, developmental delay, and chronic diarrhea; in addition, the older sister has strabismus and skeletal anomalies. The sequencing of the PUS1 gene revealed a novel homozygous p.Glu311* mutation. The phenotype of the older sibling is also unique because of the strabismus and skeletal anomalies, when compared with her sister and other previously reported patients with MLASA. The structural differences in the nuclear versus mitochondrial isoforms of PUS1 and modifier genes may be implicated in the variability of the clinical presentations in MLASA. This report adds to the growing number of mutations causing complex clinical manifestations of MLASA including lactic acidosis, sideroblastic anemia, chronic diarrhea, and myopathy.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: A search of common databases indicates the absence of any research focused on the needs of Iranian women diagnosed with severe mental illness post-discharge from an inpatient setting. Moreover, there is a lacuna of information about the unique experiences and needs of persons diagnosed with severe mental illness living in non-Western communities (esp. Middle Eastern communities). WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE: This study examined interviews of women diagnosed with severe mental illness receiving treatment at an Iranian inpatient hospital. Three categories of post-discharge needs emerged: support, skill acquisition and information. Support consisted of family, social and health system subcategories. Skill acquisition was comprised of social skills, work skills and self-management skills. Lastly, information distinguished between illness-related information and women's health information. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Findings highlight the need for systemic changes to current care models. Broadly, families should be incorporated into care to improve outcomes and decrease stigma. Regarding mental health nursing, results highlighted the need for additional nursing and occupational therapy interventions to empower families and patients. Nursing practitioners can aid in preparing these patients for employment and public health initiatives to decrease stigma and improve access to care. ABSTRACT: Introduction Understanding the post-discharge needs of patients diagnosed with severe mental illness is critical for improving treatment outcomes. Aim The aim of the present study was to determine the unique post-discharge needs of Iranian women diagnosed with severe mental illness. Method Conventional content analysis was utilized to analyse data gathered via focus group interviews conducted within the psychiatric inpatient unit at Farabi hospital located in Kermanshah, Iran. Participants (N = 42; M age = 40; SD = 6.3 years) had been diagnosed with a severe mental illness, had a history of at least two psychiatric hospitalizations and were awaiting discharge following significant symptom improvement. Results Content analysis extracted three categories of post-discharge needs: support, skill acquisition and information. Support consisted of family, social and health system subcategories. Skill acquisition was comprised of social skills, work skills and self-management skills. Lastly, information distinguished between illness-related information and women's health information. Discussion/Implications for practice Analysis of interview data highlighted the general need for adopting a family-system approach to reduce stigma, increase knowledge and foster skill acquisition. Regarding mental health nursing, results highlighted the unique role of nurses and their capacity to pre-emptively address needs such as aiding in employment. Lastly, findings are contrasted against Western care models.

Arenavirus are unique category-A pathogens that are also classified as Orphan diseases. Very few options exist currently for treating Viral Hemorrhagic Fever (VHF) caused by viruses belonging to the Arenaviridae family [1]. The current review provides detailed patent landscape and a description of selected technologies developed for combating category-A  The key strings for selected Arenavirus VHF were run separately in MCPaIRS®, PatSeer, and Questel database. The search was limited to Title, Abstract and Claim fields; one member per patent family was considered for analysis. Synthetic molecules dominate the patent landscape, while natural products have not been extensively claimed for the treatment of Arenavirus infection. The broad-spectrum activity has been highly desired for Arenavirus treatment, but few reports have experimentally tested it. With each year, a constant increase in number of patents published is seen, while the maximum number of applications was filed in 2017. The research in VHF is driven by public funds; the maximum numbers of patents were filed by publicly funded organizations.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess strategies for diagnosing depressive disorders in patients with human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS)• Identify factors that contribute to the development of depressive disorders in HIV/AIDS• Evaluate strategies for managing depressive disorders in HIV/AIDS ABSTRACT: Depressive disorders and human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) are associated with major socioeconomic burdens. The negative impact of depressive disorders on HIV/AIDS is well known, including on treatment outcomes. Unfortunately, depressive disorders are underdiagnosed and undertreated in seropositive persons. This review summarizes clinically useful information on depressive disorders in HIV/AIDS. More specifically, we address assessment, differential diagnosis, contributing factors, management, and common challenges in the treatment of depressive disorders in seropositive individuals. Assessment and diagnosis of depression may be challenging in seropositive persons because of several biopsychosocial particularities associated with HIV/AIDS. One of the difficulties is the overlap between depression and HIV/AIDS symptoms, particularly in individuals with advanced AIDS, requiring consideration of a broad differential diagnosis. Several factors related to HIV/AIDS status contribute to the higher rates of depressive disorders, including infectious-immunological, psychosocial, and exogenous factors. The treatment of depressive disorders in HIV/AIDS involves three groups of interventions: (1) pharmacological interventions, (2) psychotherapeutic interventions, and (3) management of other contributing factors. Challenges in management include poor adherence to treatment and the risk of suicide. We provide evidence-based recommendations to improve assessment and management of depressive disorders in seropositive persons.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There have been some studies on the experience and community life of mental health clients receiving integrated community mental health service (ICMHS). Evaluation of ICMHS suggests that the service could have positive clinical and social outcomes, but the results are inconclusive. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Research studies have focused on clients and/or staff of the ICMHS, while in this study, the experiences and perspectives of family members are also explored. More comprehensive knowledge about the work for, and community life of, people previously under the services of ICMHS is added to the existing knowledge. This study found that with "timely support" and "family presence," people who had received the services of ICMHS continued to engage in more social activities ("expanding social networks"), had "better family relationships," were "letting go" of thinking too much and more able to relax, and had "better self-efficacy and self-caring" in the community. Professional contact after ICMHS through continuous conversations (e.g. home visits and follow-up calls) and social activities are essential for both clients and their families to carry on living with the illness. Timely support, family presence, support to family members in the community and better social networks are key experiences of ICMHS clients. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Although the ICMHS' resources are limited, better promotion is urgently needed for the public to realize the services and to support mental health clients. Mental health professionals may develop practice models through exploratory and confirmatory factors analyses of the themes identified from this study as the outcome measures. The cost-effectiveness of services and relapse rates over time should also be evaluated for future practice development. Further studies for practice on the difference that family support can make to the community life of former ICMHS clients are warranted. This may be achieved through research designs that compare people with, and without, family members. ABSTRACT: Introduction More comprehensive understanding, from the experiences and multiple perspectives of the clients, families and staff, about the community life of former clients of the integrated community mental health service (ICMHS) is scarce. Aim To explore the community life experiences of people after their discharge from the ICMHS. Method A qualitative approach with an interpretative phenomenological analysis was utilized for this study. Data were collected through individual semi-structured interviews of 37 participants, including people discharged from an Integrated Community Centre of Mental Wellness, their family members and staff members. Results Six themes emerged from the analysis: "timely support," "family presence," "better family relationships," "expanding social networks," "letting go" and "better self-efficacy and self-care," under the main theme of "walking with the illness and life." Discussion Over and after the ICHMS, with timely support and family presence, there was a positive trend in the experiences of clients in expanding social networks, having better family relationships, letting go of thinking too much and being more able to relax, and improving self-efficacy and self-caring. Implications for practice The study provides a more comprehensive understanding of the experiences of clients, family and staff about the community life of people post-ICMHS, providing insights and clearer directions for research and practice development.

Our objective was to investigate the relationship between military occupation and diagnosed insomnia following combat deployment. This retrospective cohort study was conducted using existing electronic military databases. Eligible participants were military personnel with a deployment to Iraq, Afghanistan, or Kuwait between 2005 and 2009. A total of 66,869 U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps service members constituted the study sample and were categorized by military occupation. Military medical databases were used to abstract information on insomnia diagnoses and prescription medications. The overall prevalence of diagnosed insomnia was 3.4%. In multivariable logistic regression, personnel in law enforcement (odds ratio = 1.62; 95% confidence interval, 1.28-2.04), motor transport (odds ratio = 1.38; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-1.66), and health care occupations (odds ratio = 2.24; 95% confidence interval, 1.85-2.71) had significantly higher odds of an insomnia diagnosis following deployment than did those in infantry occupations. These results remained unchanged after excluding those who reported posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms. Nonbenzodiazepine sedative/hypnotics were prescribed for 44.2% of those with insomnia, and prescription patterns differed by occupation. These results suggest that military occupation may play a primary role in the onset and management of insomnia. The findings provide a rationale for targeting individuals in insomnia-susceptible occupations with better methods to prevent and/or minimize sleep issues during and after combat deployment.

Employment is a social determinant of health that is important for understanding health behaviors, health outcomes and HIV transmission among people living with HIV. This study is a scoping review of the literature that addresses (a) the relationship between employment and the HIV continuum of care, (b) determinants of employment among PLWH and (c) experiences with employment. We searched two databases, PubMed and Embase, and identified a total of 5622 articles that were subjected to title and abstract review. Of these, 5387 were excluded, leaving 235 articles for full-text review. A total of 66 articles met inclusion criteria and were included in the study. The literature suggests that employment status is positively associated with HIV testing, linkage to HIV care, retention in HIV care, and HIV medication adherence. Guided by a social-ecological framework, we identified determinants of employment at the individual, interpersonal, organizational, community, and policy levels that are amenable to public health intervention. Experiences with employment, including barriers, facilitators, advantages, disadvantages, and needs, provide additional insight for future research and programs.

Obtaining informed consent for bloodspot research from newborn screening is particularly challenging due to the hectic environment of the postnatal period and the relatively abstract nature of future, unspecified research on the biospecimens. A randomized controlled trial was conducted in three Michigan hospitals to compare two different consent processes (video and interactive tablet "app") with standard brochure-based consent in the Michigan BioTrust for Health. Results indicated higher knowledge scores for the video and app groups as well as significantly higher scores on satisfaction, amount of information, and clarity with the information provided. More research is needed to find the right amount of information for informed decision-making, and additional feasibility studies are needed to assess implementation strategies.

Since its diffusion in the 1990s, the Internet has developed into a fully integrated component of the lives of teenagers across the globe. As use of the Internet by underage youth has evolved and increased over the past decades, concerns about how technology may contribute to minors becoming victims of online sex crimes, including online grooming, have heightened. The present literature review contributes to the existing knowledge base regarding the epidemiology of the online grooming process, exploring key themes and issues arising in this area. We conducted a review of the current literature by an initial database research of papers published since 1990. Three independent reviewers selected relevant articles, initially based on title and abstract analysis, then by full text in order to make a final determination. After the final selection, a total of 37 articles were reviewed. The articles reviewed report highly heterogenous results with regards to epidemiological data, estimating a prevalence of the online grooming phenomenon between 9% and 19%. Factors influencing minors' risk of online grooming included increasing age, gender, sexual minority orientation, diagnosis of mental disease, conflictual relationships with parents and risk-taking behaviors (e.g. chat room and social networking site use). Although the true prevalence of online grooming is not available, it is a significant issue among minors. Thus, it is important to educate youth on responsible internet use, starting at the earliest age and continuing during adolescence.

The mother-newborn relationship is more important in neonates hospitalized in the NICU than in healthy neonates. This study was conducted to explore the experiences of the mothers of infants hospitalized in the NICU. This qualitative study was done in 2016 by adopting a conventional content analysis approach. Thirty-five mothers in the NICUs, Imam Hossein Hospital and Fatemieh Hospital were selected. Their experiences were assessed using in-depth individual semi-structured interviews. Sampling was purposive and was continued until reaching data saturation. Two hundred and nine primary codes were extracted. After removing duplicates and overlaps, 95 primary codes were categorized in 8 subcategories, 2 accessory categories and 1 main category based on their appropriateness, agreement, and similarity. The accessory categories of "mothers' worries" and "mothers' hopes" were merged into a more general, abstract category named "dual feelings about the baby". The nurses' awareness of the mothers' experiences can help design interventions to promote the quality of care for mothers and infants in the critical period of the NICU admission.

Methamphetamine use is a problem for health and criminal justice systems (CJS) worldwide. Methamphetamine is used at higher rates in CJS-involved populations than the general community. This systematic review synthesises the evidence for health and CJS outcomes post-CJS contact for people reporting pre-CJS methamphetamine use. Academic databases were searched to identify peer-reviewed original studies using a longitudinal design that investigated associations between pre-CJS methamphetamine use and health and criminal justice outcomes after CJS contact. Identified studies were screened in two stages: title and abstract, then full-text. Data from the included studies were extracted and analysed. Results are reported in line with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses statement. Nine studies met the inclusion criteria: five investigated health and four investigated CJS outcomes. Pre-CJS methamphetamine use was associated with subsequent hospitalisation for drug-induced psychosis, increased risk of recidivism and higher crime costs after CJS contact. Pre-CJS methamphetamine use was not associated with subsequent hospitalisation for non-drug induced psychosis or post-release mortality. Current evidence suggests that pre-CJS contact methamphetamine use increases the risk of subsequent drug-induced psychosis and recidivism. There is a need for more longitudinal research that measures mediators and moderators of health and criminal justice outcomes after CJS contact, to inform targeted prevention. Methamphetamine use is a major problem that is contributing to serious mental illness and recidivism among CJS-involved populations. Prioritising treatment during CJS contact is recommended. Further research to identify key opportunities during health service and CJS contact for intervention is needed.

The study aims to describe the consequences for future feeding of orphans under five years of age, following the mother's death, applying open-access text mining software packages. This was a crosscutting study of articles indexed in PubMed and BIREME on the themes of maternal death and orphan children. We selected ten open-access articles published from 2005 to 2015 in which only the title or abstract were read and which met the selection criteria. The text files determined the corpus for analysis of the semi-structured content. Keywords were included for the mining. Analysis of the corpus used TagCrowd and Textalyser to analyze the more versus less frequent terms, and AntConc and Voyant Tools were used to extract keywords in the context analysis. A total of 67,642 words were analyzed in ten semi-structured texts. The terms CHILDREN (827) and DEATH (821) were the most frequent, while the least frequent were BREASTFEEDING (10) and NUTRITION (4). We found 44 concordances for the root term BREAST* and 25 for the word NUTRITION in phrases such as "orphan infants have increased risk of mortality due to lack of breastfeeding and are more susceptible to infections". The concordant sentences indicate that the change away from maternal breastfeeding leads to poor nutrition and leaves the child more susceptible to infections, increasing the risk of death. Text processing with open-access tools was rapid and allowed extracting useful and comprehensible information; analysis of the ten articles showed the consequences for the child's feeding after the mother's death, affecting infant morbidity and mortality.

Hospitalizations for certain chronic conditions are considered avoidable for adult Canadians given effective and timely primary care management. Individual-level risk factors such as income and health behaviours are not routinely collected in most hospital databases and as a result, are largely uncharacterized for avoidable hospitalization at the national level. The aim of this study was to identify and describe demographic, socioeconomic, and health behavioural risk factors for avoidable hospitalizations in Canada using linked data. A national retrospective cohort study was conducted by pooling eight cycles of the Canadian Community Health Survey (2000/2001-2011) and linking to hospitalization records in the Discharge Abstract Database (1999/2000-2012/2013). Respondents who were younger than 18 years and older than 74 years of age, residing in Quebec, or pregnant at baseline were excluded yielding a final cohort of 389,065 individuals. The primary outcome measure was time-to index avoidable hospitalization. Sex-stratified Cox proportional hazard models were constructed to determine effect sizes adjusted for various factors and their associated 95% confidence intervals. Demographics, socioeconomic status, and health behaviours are associated with risk of avoidable hospitalizations in males and females. In fully adjusted models, health behavioural variables had the largest effect sizes including heavy smoking (Male HR 2.65 (95% CI 2.17-3.23); Female HR 3.41 (2.81-4.13)) and being underweight (Male HR 1.98 (1.14-3.43); Female HR 2.78 (1.61-4.81)). Immigrant status was protective in both sexes (Male HR 0.83 (0.69-0.98); (Female HR 0.69 (0.57-0.84)). Adjustment for behavioural and clinical variables attenuated the effect of individual-level socioeconomic status. This study identified several risk factors for time-to-avoidable hospitalizations by sex, using the largest national database of linked health survey and hospitalization records. The larger effect sizes of several modifiable risk factors highlights the importance of prevention in addressing avoidable hospitalizations in Canada.

Somatization and functional somatic symptoms reflect conditions in which physical symptoms are not sufficiently explained by medical conditions. Literature suggests that these somatic symptoms may be related to illness exposure in the family. Children with a parent or sibling with a chronic illness may be particularly vulnerable to developing somatic symptoms. This study provides a systematic review of the literature on somatic symptoms in children with a chronically ill family member. A systematic review (PROSPERO registry ID: CRD42018092344) was conducted using six databases (PubMed, EMBASE, PsychINFO, Scopus, CINAHL, and Cochrane) from articles published before April 5, 2018. All authors evaluated articles by title and abstract, and then by full-text review. Relevant data were extracted by the first author and reviewed by remaining authors. Twenty-seven unique studies met the criteria. Seventeen examined somatic symptoms in children with a chronically ill parent, and seven evaluated somatic symptoms in children with a chronically ill sibling. Three studies examined somatic symptoms in children with an unspecified ill relative. The strongest relationship between child somatization and familial illness was found with children with a chronically ill parent (13/17 studies). Evidence for somatic symptoms in children with an ill sibling was mixed (4/7 studies found a positive association). The literature on somatic symptoms in children suggests that parental illness is related to increased somatic symptoms in children. Research examining the effects of having a sibling with an illness on somatic symptoms is mixed. Several areas of future research are outlined to further clarify the relationship between familial chronic illness and somatic symptoms.

Empirically based developmental and behavioral intervention programs targeting the core symptoms and language development in toddlers and preschool children with autism spectrum disorder 

Disembarking from a traditional approach of narrow hazardous environmental and structural conditions in understanding urban slums' health problems and moving towards a new notion of what constitutes health for slum dwellers will open a new avenue to recognise whether and how health is being prioritised in disadvantaged settings. Drawing on in-depth semi-structured interviews with a total of 67 men and 68 women from Kolkata slums and 62 men and 48 women from Bangalore slums, this study explored how knowledge, social realities, material and symbolic drivers of a place interweave in shaping slum-dwellers' patterned way of understanding health, and the ways health and illnesses are managed. The current study adds to the growing evidence that ordinary members of the urban slums can articulate critical linkages between their everyday sociocultural realities and health conditions, which can support the design and delivery of interventions to promote wellbeing. The concept of health is not confined to an abstract idea but manifested in slum-dwellers' sporadic practices of preventive and curative care as well as everyday living arrangements, where a complex arrangement of physical, psychological, financial, sociocultural and environmental dimensions condition their body and wellbeing.

This scoping review examines the literature as it relates to autonomous vehicles and impact on movement behavior (i.e., physical activity, sedentary behavior, and sleep) or mode choice (e.g., public transit), beliefs about movement behavior or mode choice, or impact on environments that may influence movement behavior or mode choice. A search was conducted in June 2018 and updated in August 2019 of numerous databases (e.g., SPORTDiscuss, PubMed, and Scopus) and hand searching using terms such as autonomous cars and walking. Documents were included if they were databased studies, published in English, and related to the research question. They were then coded by 6 reviewers for characteristics of the document, design, sample, autonomous vehicles, movement behavior, and findings. The coding and analysis were conducted between August 2018 and September 2019. Of 1,262 possible studies, 192 remained after a title and abstract scan, and 70 were included after a full-article scan. Most of the studies were conducted in Europe (42%) or North America (40%), involved simulation modeling (50%) or cross-sectional (34%) designs, and were published mostly in transportation (83%) journals or reports. Of the 252 findings, 61% related to movement behavior or mode choice. Though the findings were equivocal in some cases, impacts included decreased demand for active transportation, increased demand for autonomous vehicles, increased sitting and sleeping, and reduced walking. Though no experimental or longitudinal studies have been published to date, the available research suggests that autonomous vehicles will impact aspects of mode choice and the built environment of people residing in much of the developed world, resulting in reduced walking and more sitting.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: AHDs in mental health are fundamental tools in advance care planning processes. It is an important method for involving mental healthcare users in clinical decisions and in providing effective healthcare based around user preferences. AHDs can be applied in situations in which the person may forfeit their legal capacity, according to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. However, the use of AHDs as described above is not yet a reality in Spain. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The present study surveys the knowledge and attitudes of mental healthcare providers towards AHDs in clinical practice. Although providers had a moderate-low level of knowledge about AHDs, they presented positive attitudes towards them. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The use of AHDs in mental healthcare practice poses challenges to the Spanish mental healthcare system. Acquiring up-to-date data on the knowledge and attitudes of providers towards AHDs allows organizations to address aspects of their service that require reinforcement. This data could also be used by other countries just starting to use AHDs, as an initial step towards supporting the implementation of a multistage intervention process. More in-depth training for providers would help improve their competence to implement or honour the statements set out in AHDs, the related legal and ethical issues, and liability issues related to their implementation. The Spanish mental healthcare system requires structural changes so that providers can embrace new ways of relating to users and to organize partnerships and a continuity of care centred on user preferences. ABSTRACT: Introduction Advance healthcare directives (AHDs) in mental health offer important information regarding service users' preferences. However, whether AHDs are truly understood by providers is questionable. Aim To survey the knowledge and attitudes of mental health professionals towards AHDs and examine any associations with sociodemographic and occupational variables. Method We cross-sectionally surveyed the knowledge and attitudes of 113 mental health professionals by using two validated questionnaires. Results Participants showed very positive attitudes and high levels of knowledge about the conceptual definition and application of AHDs in clinical practice but their knowledge of the legalities, procedure and registration of AHDs was poor. Working in a community, having a career specializing in mental health or having personally signed an AHD was associated with enhanced knowledge about them. Moreover, female sex or employment as an auxiliary nursing-care technician was associated with stronger positive attitudes. Discussion Legal and structural changes will be needed to implement AHDs in Spain and to promote competence among healthcare providers in order to include AHDs in everyday practice. Implications for practice The Spanish mental healthcare system requires legal and structural changes and must improve healthcare providers' competence in AHDs before they are implemented.

Some studies based on proportions of patients with perforated appendicitis (PA) among all patients with acute appendicitis (AA) have found an association between socioeconomic status (SES) and risk of perforation. A potential limitation is their use of proportions, which assumes that incidence of AA is evenly distributed across populations at risk. This assumption may be invalid, and SES may have a more complex association with both AA and PA. To generate population-based incidences of AA and PA and to examine geographic patterns of incidence alongside geographic patterns of SES. Retrospective study of data from Washington's Comprehensive Hospital Abstract Reporting System and the 2010 US census. Geographic methods were used to identify patterns of age- and sex-standardized incidence in Washington State between 2008 and 2012. The study included all patients discharged with International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision codes for AA or PA. Data were analyzed between November 2016 and December 2018. Location of primary residence. Age- and sex-standardized incidence for AA and PA was generated for each census tract (CT). Global spatial autocorrelation was examined using Moran index (0.0 = completely random incidence; 1.0 = fully dependent on location). Clusters of low-incidence CTs (cold spots) and high-incidence CTs (hot spots) were identified for AA. Census-based SES data were aggregated for hot spots and cold spots and then compared. Statewide, over the 5-year study period, there were 35 730 patients with AA (including 9780 cases of PA), of whom 16 574 were women (46.4%). Median age of the cohort was 29 years (IQR, 16-48 years). Statewide incidence of AA and PA was 106 and 29 per 100 000 person-years (PY), respectively. Crude incidence was higher within the male population and peaked at age 10 to 19 years. Age- and sex-standardized incidence of AA demonstrated significant positive spatial autocorrelation (Moran index, 0.30; P < .001), but autocorrelation for PA was only half as strong (0.16; P < .001). Median incidence of AA was 118.1 per 100 000 PY among hot spots vs 86.2 per 100 000 PY among cold spots (P < .001). Socioeconomic status was higher in cold spots vs hot spots: mean proportion of college-educated adults was 56% vs 26% (P < .001), and mean per capita income was $44 691 vs $30 027 (P < .001). Age- and sex-standardized incidence of appendicitis is not randomly distributed across geographic subunits, and geographic clustering of AA is twice as strong as PA. Socioeconomic advantages, such as higher income and secondary education, are strongly associated with lower incidence of AA. These findings challenge conventional views that AA occurs randomly and has no predisposing characteristics beyond age/sex. Socioeconomic status, and likely other geographically circumscribed factors, are associated with incidence of AA.

With the growing rate of tumors, cancer has become one of the most important health concerns in Iran. The urgency with which Iranian researchers and health professionals address this challenge leads to a load of scientific materials. To reveal gaps in produced knowledge and suggest future research directions, applying well-validated scientometric tools, we assessed the trends of Iranian published scientific articles and citations in the field of oncology. The inclusion criteria consisted of all oncology-related articles that were data-based, and peer-reviewed; with at least an abstract published in English; and authored by at least one researcher affiliated with Iranian institutions. Amongst 5063525 oncology research records indexed in at least one of PubMed, Scopus, or Web of Science Core Collection (WoS) from the start to February 2019, Iranian researches accounted for about 24867 (0.49%). Published articles on all cancers by Iranian researchers had a sharp continuously ascending trend, with the same pattern for citations received. Some important topics such as complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) therapies have been missing and some such as diagnostic and pharmaceutical innovations have been less investigated. The most collaborative country was the United States, while no close collaboration was observed with China that was introduced as the most productive country in the field of oncology over the past decades. Despite the progressive trend in most oncology fields, some significant practical topics are still missing. Systematic reviews of produced theoretical innovations and translating them to functional knowledge can be of importance to fulfill the mentioned gaps.

Adverse events after rhinoplasty vary in etiology and severity, a fact that is reflected in the current American Society of Plastic Surgeons rhinoplasty consent form. However, there is currently no literature providing a comprehensive summation of evidence-based quantifiable risk of adverse events after rhinoplasty. Given this limitation, patients considering rhinoplasty are unable to fully ascertain preoperative risk, and the ability of physicians to obtain true informed consent is similarly flawed. This systematic review provides the first rigorous, comprehensive, and quantitative reporting of adverse events after rhinoplasty. This review was registered on the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) database (registration no. CRD42018081826) in April of 2018. Eligible articles were published in peer-reviewed journals with available abstracts and full-text articles. Interventions included primary functional, aesthetic, and combined functional/aesthetic rhinoplasty. The following data were extracted: study size, population characteristics, indication, surgical approach, concomitant procedures, and incidence of adverse events. A search yielded 3215 publications for title and abstract screening. Three hundred twenty-two were eligible for full-text review. Thirty-six met final inclusion criteria. A total of 13 adverse events were reported among these studies and included need for revision (0 to 10.9 percent), infection (0 to 4 percent), dehiscence (0 to 5 percent), bleeding (0 to 4.1 percent), septal perforation (0 to 2.6 percent), nasal airway obstruction requiring revision (0 to 3 percent), and hypertrophic scarring (0 to 1.5 percent). This systematic review presents the first comprehensive and quantitative reporting of adverse event frequency after rhinoplasty. This is a crucial tool for preoperative patient counseling and an essential adjunct in the acquisition of informed consent. Future investigations will benefit from transparency and standardization of reporting to further quantify adverse event rates.

Assessment of the maturity of juvenile and young adult offenders according to §105 of German juvenile law: a developmental psychology perspective 

This article provides a systematic review of cross-sectional research examining associations between exposure to alcohol marketing and alcohol use behaviors among adolescents and young adults. Literature searches of eight electronic databases were carried out in February 2017. Searches were not limited by date, language, country, or peer-review status. After abstract and full-text screening for eligibility and study quality, 38 studies that examined the relationship between alcohol marketing and alcohol use behaviors were selected for inclusion. Across alcohol use outcomes, various types of marketing exposure, and different media sources, our findings suggest that cross-sectional evidence indicating a positive relationship between alcohol marketing exposure and alcohol use behaviors among adolescents and young adults was greater than negative or null evidence. In other words, cross-sectional evidence supported that alcohol marketing exposure was associated with young peoples' alcohol use behaviors. In general, relationships for alcohol promotion (e.g., alcohol-sponsored events) and owning alcohol-related merchandise exposures were more consistently positive than for other advertising exposures. These positive associations were observed across the past four decades, in countries across continents, and with small and large samples. Despite issues of measurement and construct clarity within this body of literature, this review suggests that exposure to alcohol industry marketing may be important for understanding and reducing young peoples' alcohol use behavior. Future policies aimed at regulating alcohol marketing to a greater extent may have important short- and long-term public health implications for reducing underage or problematic alcohol use among youth.

Perinatal health-seeking behaviours are influenced by various factors, including personal beliefs. South Asian women, who often live within a wide kinship system, can be influenced by the advice and guidance of their mothers and/or mothers-in-law. To explore the cultural health perceptions of South Asian grandmothers within this context, we used constructivist grounded theory to sample and interview 17 South Asian grandmothers who reside in Southern Ontario, Canada. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim, and coded/analyzed by three independent coders. Many grandmothers emphasized that the preconception phase should focus on building healthy habits around nutrition, physical activity, and mental wellness; the pregnancy period should encompass an enriched environment (positive relationships, healthy routines, nutritional enhancement); and the postpartum phase should emphasize healing and restoration for both the mother and newborn (self-care, bonding, rebuilding healthy habits). Many of the grandmothers conceptualized these stages as a cyclical relationship where healing and restoration transitions gradually to re-establishing healthy habits before having a subsequent child. They also expressed responsibility in supporting their daughters and/or daughters-in-law with their family units and encouraging the transfer of perinatal health information. South Asian grandmothers are involved in supporting the family units of their children and involving them in perinatal health programming can be an effective way to translate health knowledge to South Asian women. Video abstract. In order to impact a broad, diverse audience of community members, we collaborated with a South Asian film-maker to distil the research findings, write an impactful script, and produce a short digital story based on the research findings. Currently available on social media (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tjcNUVOwatU), the film was celebrated with a CIHR Institute for Human Development, Child and Youth Health Video Talks Prize in 2016.

To explore the role of psychological, social and contextual factors across the recovery stages (ie, acute, rehabilitation or return to sport (RTS)) following a traumatic time-loss sport-related knee injury. This review followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews and Arksey and O'Malley framework. Six databases were searched using predetermined search terms. Included studies consisted of original data written in English that identified or described a psychological, social or contextual factor related to recovery after a traumatic time-loss sport-related knee injury. Two authors independently conducted title-abstract and full-text reviews. Study quality was assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. Thematic analysis was undertaken. Of 7289 records, 77 studies representing 5540 participants (37% women, 84% anterior cruciate ligament tears, aged 14-60 years) were included. Psychological factors were investigated across all studies, while social and contextual factors were assessed in 39% and 21% of included studies, respectively. A cross-cutting concept of individualisation was present across four psychological (barriers to progress, active coping, independence and recovery expectations), two social (social support and engagement in care) and two contextual (environmental influences and sport culture) themes. Athletes report multiple barriers to recovery and valued their autonomy, having an active role in their recovery and diverse social support. Diverse psychological, social and contextual factors are present and influence all stages of recovery following a traumatic sport-related knee injury. A better understanding of these factors at the time of injury and throughout rehabilitation could assist with optimising injury management, promoting RTS, and long-term health-related quality-of-life.

Living with bandages: a mixed-methods-study on the view of families of children with epidermolysis bullosa 

Cross-sectional data on 2,434 men and women aging between 15 and 24 years were collected from the most recent Guyana Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey conducted in 2014. Outcome variables were perceived: satisfaction about health, life, and happiness, as well as life satisfaction before and after one year from the time of the survey. The urban-rural disparity in reporting satisfaction for these indicators was assessed by multivariate regression methods and by adjusting for relevant sociodemographic factors. More than four-fifth of the respondents reported satisfaction with health (82.4%) and life (81.4%) and 77.9% reported being happy. A vast majority expressed improvement in life situation compared with a year ago (81.4%), and nearly all of the participants (95.4%) expect to have better life situation a year later. Multivariate analysis revealed an inverse association between rural residence and subjective health among men [OR = 0.518, 95%CI = 0.297, 0.901], and happiness [OR = 0.662, 95%CI = 0.381, 0.845] and life satisfaction [OR = 3.722, 95%CI = 1.502, 9.227] among women. Women having secondary [OR = 2.219, 95%CI = 1.209, 3.720] and higher [OR = 1.600, 95%CI = 1.041, 3.302] education also had higher odds of satisfaction with happiness. Our findings demonstrate the existence of significant urban-rural disparities in perceived health and quality of life among the young adult population in Guyana, especially among women. National health promotion projects should therefore take proper policy actions to address the underlying factors contributing to the urban-rural gaps in order to establish a more equitable healthcare system. Further researches are necessary to explore the underlying causes behind such disparities.

Are suicidal young people reached by online-counselling? Evaluation of the target group outreach of [U25] online suicide prevention 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Family-focused interventions in Adult Mental Health Services (AMHS) address the needs of families where a parent is diagnosed with a mental illness. One of these interventions is the "Let's Talk about Children" programme (Let's Talk) (Solantaus & Toikka, 2006 International Journal of Mental Health Promotion, 8(3), 37). There is limited implementation knowledge on family-focused interventions. A body of research to better understand the transfer of evidence-based interventions into everyday practice has identified multiple influencing elements. The Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) has combined these known elements from research into five domains of influence. Elements that influence the implementation of evidence-based practice are inter-related and need to be understood in combination. Understanding different stakeholder perspectives on implementation in real-world settings helps to understand uptake, challenges and opportunities. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: As the first study to document leadership's perspectives of implementing Let's Talk, this paper contributes to the evidence base on their role in implementing family-focused practice models in mental health. There are specific roles of leadership that need to be addressed to support implementing Let's Talk in changing environments. Leadership's knowledge of Let's Talk and approach to change influences implementation. Questions are raised about the role the readiness of the parent and the impact that the dynamic process between the practitioner and parent has on implementing Let's Talk. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Engaging leadership needs to address the influence of their different organizational roles in shaping implementation for Let's Talk. Further research is needed to understand the dynamic process between parent and practitioner that influences readiness for trialling Let's Talk. ABSTRACT: Introduction Different stakeholder's perspectives are needed to understand challenges and opportunities in implementing and sustaining evidence-based practices (EBP) in real-world settings. Aim/Question To identify leadership perspectives on key elements influencing the process of implementation of Let's Talk about Children (Let's Talk), a family-focused practice for practitioners working with parents diagnosed with a mental illness. Method Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 16 service managers and implementation leads, to establish their views on key elements influencing implementation of Let's Talk during a randomized controlled trial. A thematic analysis applied both inductive and deductive approaches, using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR). Results Impacts to effective translation to practice were grouped into three broad themes with eight subthemes: inner and outer setting impacting organization, leadership affecting readiness and parent and practitioner readiness. Discussion The findings suggest that specific roles for leadership are vital to implementation within an environment of constant change, and more attention is needed to understand the dynamics of parent and practitioner readiness for delivering Let's Talk. Implications for practice Different leadership roles need to be engaged to sustain Let's Talk in changing real-world environments. The dynamic processes between parent and practitioner are suggested to influence readiness and need further research.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Adults who support an adult family member with a severe and enduring mental health problem often experience carer burden. Over time, this often negatively affects their mental and physical health and social well-being. Understanding and communicating about mental health problems in families can help to improve resilience and coping among both adults and children. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We conducted a review of studies looking at how adult relatives understand and communicate about an adult family member's mental health problem. The findings highlight that how relatives make sense of MHP is related to historical family relationships, their mental health literacy and whether they see themselves as a "carer" or not. The findings also show that little research to date has explored how adult relatives talk with children about their parent's difficulties, and how the adults' understanding might affect what children learn about the MHP. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is a research gap to be addressed regarding family communication with children about parental mental health problems. This knowledge gap likely impacts family-focused mental health nursing and therapy provision. Mental health nursing, therapeutic and support workers and advocates are ideally positioned to assist relatives with improving their mental health literacy and confidence communicating about mental health, and to promote inclusion of relatives and children in interventions. ABSTRACT: Introduction Relatives are profoundly affected by an adult family member's severe and enduring mental health problem (MHP). The burdens of caring impact on adult relatives' emotional, physical and social well-being. How relatives make meaning and communicate about the MHP is thought to affect family talk about mental health, and this can impact family coping and well-being. Aim No review has yet drawn together research about how adult relatives of people with severe and enduring MHP make meaning and communicate about their relatives' difficulties. We aimed to address this gap. Method We conducted a systematic review of peer-reviewed primary research. SCOPUS, PubMed, Psychnet, SCIE, Cochrane and CINAHL+ databases were searched. Results Nineteen papers qualified for inclusion. Findings are organized under four themes: making meaning about the MHP and affected individual; conceptualizing the self in the presence of the MHP; meaning-making processes underlying relatives' well-being outcomes; and relatives' perspectives on family talk about the MHP. Discussion Historical relationships, caregiver identity and mental health literacy moderate relatives' understanding and talk about the MHP. Implications for practice Psychoeducation and communication support for relatives should be provided by mental health practitioners. Future research should address familial communication about MHP, including with children.

Systematic reviews (SRs) are time and resource intensive, requiring approximately 1 year from protocol registration to submission for publication. Our aim was to describe the process, facilitators, and barriers to completing the first 2-week full SR. We systematically reviewed evidence of the impact of increased fluid intake, on urinary tract infection (UTI) recurrence, in individuals at risk for UTIs. The review was conducted by experienced systematic reviewers with complementary skills (two researcher clinicians, an information specialist, and an epidemiologist), using Systematic Review Automation tools, and blocked off time for the duration of the project. The outcomes were time to complete the SR, time to complete individual SR tasks, facilitators and barriers to progress, and peer reviewer feedback on the SR manuscript. Times to completion were analyzed quantitatively (minutes and calendar days); facilitators and barriers were mapped onto the Theoretical Domains Framework; and peer reviewer feedback was analyzed quantitatively and narratively. The SR was completed in 61 person-hours (9 workdays; 12 calendar days); accepted version of the manuscript required 71 person-hours. Individual SR tasks ranged from 16 person-minutes (deduplication of search results) to 461 person-minutes (data extraction). The least time-consuming SR tasks were obtaining full-texts, searches, citation analysis, data synthesis, and deduplication. The most time-consuming tasks were data extraction, write-up, abstract screening, full-text screening, and risk of bias. Facilitators and barriers mapped onto the following domains: knowledge; skills; memory, attention, and decision process; environmental context and resources; and technology and infrastructure. Two sets of peer reviewer feedback were received on the manuscript: the first included 34 comments requesting changes, 17 changes were made, requiring 173 person-minutes; the second requested 13 changes, and eight were made, requiring 121 person-minutes. A small and experienced systematic reviewer team using Systematic Review Automation tools who have protected time to focus solely on the SR can complete a moderately sized SR in 2 weeks.

Leukotrienes are powerful mediators of inflammation and interact with specific receptors in target cell membrane to initiate an inflammatory response. Thus, Leukotrienes (LTs) are considered to be potent mediators of inflammatory diseases including allergic rhinitis, inflammatory bowel disease and asthma. Leukotriene B4 and the series of cysteinyl leukotrienes (C4, D4, and E4) are metabolites of arachidonic acid metabolism that cause inflammation. The cysteinyl LTs are known to increase vascular permeability, bronco-constriction and mucus secretion. To review the published data for leukotriene inhibitors of plant origin and the recent patents for leukotriene inhibitors, as well as their role in the management of inflammatory diseases. Published data for leukotrienes antagonists of plant origin were searched from 1938 to 2019, without language restrictions using relevant keywords in both free text and Medical Subject Headings (MeSH terms) format. Literature and patent searches in the field of leukotriene inhibitors were carried out by using numerous scientific databases including Science Direct, PubMed, MEDLINE, Google Patents, US Patents, US Patent Applications, Abstract of Japan, German Patents, European Patents, WIPO and NAPRALERT. Finally, data from these information resources were analyzed and reported in the present study. Currently, numerous anti-histaminic medicines are available including chloropheneremine, brompheniramine, cetirizine, and clementine. Furthermore, specific leukotriene antagonists from allopathic medicines are also available including zileuton, montelukast, pranlukast and zafirlukast and are considered effective and safe medicines as compared to the first generation medicines. The present study reports leukotrienes antagonistic agents of natural products and certain recent patents that could be an alternative medicine in the management of inflammation in respiratory diseases. The present study highlights recent updates on the pharmacology and patents on leukotriene antagonists in the management of inflammation respiratory diseases.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Adolescents who partake in one health risk behaviour (HRB) easily adopt other HRBs, simultaneously or subsequently. Multiple HRBs might threaten adolescents' future health in adulthood. Adolescents with psychological problems have higher rates of smoking, alcohol use, early sexual initiation and activity, and illicit substance use compared with others. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: A considerable number of Korean adolescents with mental health problems were engaged in multiple HRBs. For those with mental health problems, more than half of the Korean adolescents with multiple HRBs tended to use alcohol and cigarettes concurrently. Korean adolescents who felt depressed and had suicidal ideation were more likely to engage in a greater number of HRBs. Substance abuse is the most prevalent problem that is combined with other HRBs among those with depression and suicidal ideation compared to those who exhibited other HRBs. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: When mental health nurses working in schools and community centres for mental health identify Korean adolescents with significant depression and suicide ideation levels, they should also assess adolescents' engagement in multiple HRBs. Population-based campaigns and policy changes that emphasize both psychological health and risky behaviour reduction among adolescents should be provided simultaneously to students and school nurses. ABSTRACT: Introduction There is limited understanding about whether poor mental health is associated with certain combinations of multiple health risk behaviours (HRBs) such as smoking, drinking, early sexual activity and substance abuse. Aim To determine the prevalence of multiple HRBs and to identify associations between poor mental health and multiple HRBs as the number of HRBs increases. Methods This cross-sectional study was conducted using the 2016 Korea Youth Risk Behavior Web-based Survey (N = 65,528). Descriptive statistics and multinomial logistic regression analyses were conducted using the complex sample data. Results Overall, 28.6% and 13.9% of Korean adolescents were involved in one or multiple HRBs, respectively. Adolescents who were depressed (OR = 1.43-4.47, 95% CI = 1.37-1.49 to 3.23-6.20) and/or who had suicidal ideation (OR = 1.33-3.19, 95% CI = 1.25-1.42 to 2.25-4.51) were more likely to engage in multiple HRBs. Discussion A considerable numbers of Korean adolescents are engaged in multiple HRBs. When adolescents self-reported depression and suicidal ideation, they were more likely to engage in a greater number of HRBs than single HRB. Implications for practice Tailored interventions to decrease multiple HRBs should be designed and provided by considering adolescents' mental health status and needs.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Families act not only as the primary support for people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia but also as partners in the healthcare system. Families who have members with mental disorders, particularly schizophrenia, experience challenges in family functioning. Research on families in relation to schizophrenia primarily focuses on the determinants that affect family functioning from primary family caregivers' perspectives. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This report provides evidence that there is a concordance between family functioning and inpatient psychiatric rehabilitation facilities for the patient-caregiver dyad; both care-receivers and primary family caregivers considered family functioning as poor. Care-receivers with lower education levels, increased number of previous hospitalizations and poor quality of family-centred care experienced unhealthy family functioning. Primary family caregivers and care-receivers with higher education levels, lower suicidality and greater quality of family-centred care experienced healthier family functioning. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Understanding the degree of family functioning, particularly its concordance and correlates as perceived by patients and primary family caregivers, may serve as a platform for inculcating assessment of family functioning to achieve holistic patient care. Open dialogue in family-focused care planning is essential to facilitate collaborative partnerships and improve family functioning among people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia and their primary family caregivers. Further research on culturally relevant, evidence-based family interventions to enhance the functioning of affected families is warranted, especially for families with members in inpatient psychiatric rehabilitation facilities. ABSTRACT: Introduction Families provide frontline caregiving support for people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia. However, research primarily addresses correlates of family functioning from primary family caregivers' perspectives. Aim To examine perceived family functioning, particularly its concordance within patient-caregiver dyads and associated factors in families of people living with schizophrenia. Methods A cross-sectional, descriptive correlational design was used. A total of 133 dyads of patients and primary family caregivers from inpatient psychiatric rehabilitation services participated. Descriptive statistics, independent-sample t test, one-way ANOVA, Pearson's correlation coefficients, intraclass correlation coefficient and stepwise multiple linear regression analyses were applied. Results Family functioning was perceived as impaired by patient-caregiver dyads, and there existed a concordance in this regard. Patients' and family caregivers' education levels, patients' suicidality, number of previous hospitalizations and quality of family-centred care correlated with patients' and primary family caregivers' family functioning. Discussion Findings highlight the importance of patient- and family-reported family functioning with implications to address individual and collective concerns. Implications for Practice Evidence-based family interventions are crucial for assisting vulnerable families in promoting family functioning. Mental health nurses should facilitate collaboration and open dialogue concerning perspectives of patients and families to improve delivery of comprehensive mental health care.

Research suggests that scientists display confirmation biases with regard to the evaluation of research studies, in that they evaluate results as being stronger when a study confirms their prior expectations. These biases may influence the peer review process, particularly for studies that present controversial findings. The purpose of the current study was to compare the evaluation of a parapsychology study versus a neuroscience study. One hundred participants with a background in psychology were randomly assigned to read and evaluate one of two virtually identical study abstracts (50 participants per group). One of the abstracts described the findings as if they were from a parapsychology study, whereas the other abstract described the findings as if they were from a neuroscience study. The results revealed that participants rated the neuroscience abstract as having stronger findings and as being more valid and reliable than the parapsychology abstract, despite the fact that the two abstracts were identical. Participants also displayed confirmation bias in their ratings of the parapsychology abstract, in that their ratings were correlated with their scores on transcendentalism (a measure of beliefs and experiences related to parapsychology, consciousness and reality). Specifically, higher transcendentalism was associated with more favorable ratings of the parapsychology abstract, whereas lower transcendentalism was associated with less favorable ratings. The findings suggest that individuals with a background in psychology need to be vigilant about potential biases that could impact their evaluations of parapsychology research during the peer review process.

To explore obstetricians' and gynaecologists' experiences of work-related traumatic events, to measure the prevalence and predictors of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), any impacts on personal and professional lives, and any support needs. Mixed methods: cross-sectional survey and in-depth interviews. Fellows, members and trainees of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG). A survey was sent to 6300 fellows, members and trainees of RCOG. 1095 people responded. Then 43 in-depth interviews with trauma-exposed participants were completed and analysed by template analysis. Exposure to traumatic work-related events and PTSD, personal and professional impacts, and whether there was any need for support. Interviews explored the impact of trauma, what helped or hindered psychological recovery, and any assistance wanted. Two-thirds reported exposure to traumatic work-related events. Of these, 18% of both consultants and trainees reported clinically significant PTSD symptoms. Staff of black or minority ethnicity were at increased risk of PTSD. Clinically significant PTSD symptoms were associated with lower job satisfaction, emotional exhaustion and depersonalisation. Organisational impacts included sick leave, and 'seriously considering leaving the profession'. 91% wanted a system of care. The culture in obstetrics and gynaecology was identified as a barrier to trauma support. A strategy to manage the impact of work-place trauma is proposed. Exposure to work-related trauma is a feature of the experience of obstetricians and gynaecologists. Some will suffer PTSD with high personal, professional and organisational impacts. A system of care is needed. 18% of obstetrics and gynaecology doctors experience post-traumatic stress disorder after traumatic events at work.

Industry compensation to authors may influence the interpretation of study results. Scientific journals often require author disclosure of a relevant financial conflict of interest (FCOI) but seldom quantify compensation and leave reporting up to the author's discretion. Professional and public concerns related to potential bias introduced into medical research by FCOI have arisen, especially when physician compensation from manufacturers is not disclosed. Little is known, however, about the prevalence of industry compensation to authors of related publications, payment amounts, or how this information compares with self-reported FCOI. The objective of this study was to compare industry compensation and disclosed FCOI among highly referenced publications related to treatment of peripheral artery disease, a disease that affects approximately 8.5 million Americans and is often treated with medications and devices. "Peripheral artery disease" was used as a Web of Science search term to identify publications from 2013 to 2016, excluding review articles, conference proceedings, book chapters, abstract publications, and non-English language publications. The top 99 most cited publications were abstracted for self-reported FCOI by author. Industry compensation to authors was queried using a ProPublica Dollars for Docs custom data set based on Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Open Payments data. Providers practicing in the United States in any of the following specialties were included: cardiology, cardiothoracic surgery, vascular and interventional radiology, or vascular surgery. Payment transactions were matched to physician authors on the basis of provider name, specialty, and geographic location. Statistical analysis included descriptive statistics and categorical tests. Descriptive statistics are reported as frequency (percentage) or median (interquartile range). Among 1008 vascular specialist authors identified, 218 (22%) self-reported FCOI. Fifty-six physician authors had compensation reported to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services by industry during the study period. Among those identified as recipients of industry compensation, 28 (50%) self-reported FCOI. Industry payments to the 56 authors totaled $11,139,987, with a median total payment of $18,827 (interquartile range, $152,084) per author. Food and beverage was the most frequently identified nature of payment (n = 8981 [74%]), promotional speaking involved the largest total amount of payments ($3,256,431), and royalty or license was the highest median payment ($51,431 [$72,215]). Physicians reporting FCOI received a total of $9,435,340 during the study period vs $1,706,647 for those who did not report any FCOI. Median total payments were higher among authors reporting FCOI vs not ($81,224 [$324,171] vs $9494 [$43,448]; P < .001). Nondisclosed author compensation from industry is relatively uncommon among highly cited peripheral artery disease research studies but may be associated with substantial payments. These results suggest that self-reported FCOI does not provide a comprehensive overview of industry compensation. Reporting all payments rather than only those deemed relevant by the author might provide a more complete and transparent report of potential FCOI, allowing independent assessment of relevance in interpreting study findings.

To explore the healthcare experiences of parents whose baby died either before, during or shortly after birth between 20 Qualitative interview study. England through two parent support organisations and four NHS Trusts. A purposive sample of parents. Thematic analysis of semi-structured in-depth narrative interviews. Parents' healthcare experiences. The key overarching theme to emerge from interviews with 38 parents was the importance of the terminology used to refer to the death of their baby. Parents who were told they were 'losing a baby' rather than 'having a miscarriage' were more prepared for the realities of labour, the birth experience and for making decisions around seeing and holding their baby. Appropriate terminology validated their loss, and impacted on parents' health and wellbeing immediately following bereavement and in the longer term. For parents experiencing the death of their baby at the margins between miscarriage, stillbirth and neonatal death, ensuring the use of appropriate terminology that reflects parents' preferences is vital. This helps to validate their loss and prepare them for the experiences of labour and birth. Reflecting parents' language preferences combined with compassionate bereavement care is likely to have a positive impact on parents' experiences and improve longer-term outcomes. Describing baby loss shortly before 24 weeks of gestation as a 'miscarriage' does not prepare parents for labour and birth, seeing their baby and making memories.

To determine the accuracy of single-reviewer screening in correctly classifying abstracts as relevant or irrelevant for literature reviews. We conducted a crowd-based, parallel-group randomized controlled trial. Using the Cochrane Crowd platform, we randomly assigned eligible participants to 100 abstracts each of a pharmacological or a public health topic. After completing a training exercise, participants screened abstracts online based on predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. We calculated sensitivities and specificities of single- and dual-reviewer screening using two published systematic reviews as reference standards. Two hundred and eighty participants made 24,942 screening decisions on 2,000 randomly selected abstracts from the reference standard reviews. On average, each abstract was screened 12 times. Overall, single-reviewer abstract screening missed 13% of relevant studies (sensitivity: 86.6%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 80.6%-91.2%). By comparison, dual-reviewer abstract screening missed 3% of relevant studies (sensitivity: 97.5%; 95% CI, 95.1%-98.8%). The corresponding specificities were 79.2% (95% CI, 77.4%-80.9%) and 68.7% (95% CI, 66.4%-71.0%), respectively. Single-reviewer abstract screening does not appear to fulfill the high methodological standards that decisionmakers expect from systematic reviews. It may be a viable option for rapid reviews, which deliberately lower methodological standards to provide decision makers with accelerated evidence synthesis products.

The risk of suicide is significant during the transition of care; the highest in the first few weeks after discharge from a healthcare facility. This systematic review summarizes the evidence for interventions providing care during this high-risk period. In January 2019, PubMed and Scopus were systematically searched using the search terms: Suicide AND (Hospital OR Emergency department) AND Discharge. Articles relevant to interventions targeting suicidal behaviors during the transition of care were selected after the title and abstract screening followed by full-text screening. This review article included 40 articles; with a total patient population of 24,568. The interventions included telephone contacts, letters, green cards, postcards, structured visits, and community outreach programs. An improvement in the engagement of patients in outpatient services was observed but the evidence for suicidal behaviors was conflicting. The reviewed interventions were efficacious in linking patients to outpatient services, reducing feelings of social isolation and helping patients in navigating the available community resources. For patients with repetitive suicidal behaviors, psychosocial interventions such as dialectical behavioral therapy can be helpful. Patients should be followed by targeted interventions based on risk categorization of the patients by using evidence-based tools.

Normative theories of judgment either focus on rationality (decontextualized preference maximization) or reasonableness (pragmatic balance of preferences and socially conscious norms). Despite centuries of work on these concepts, a critical question appears overlooked: How do people's intuitions and behavior align with the concepts of rationality from game theory and reasonableness from legal scholarship? We show that laypeople view rationality as abstract and preference maximizing, simultaneously viewing reasonableness as sensitive to social context, as evidenced in spontaneous descriptions, social perceptions, and linguistic analyses of cultural products (news, soap operas, legal opinions, and Google books). Further, experiments among North Americans and Pakistani bankers, street merchants, and samples engaging in exchange (versus market) economy show that rationality and reasonableness lead people to different conclusions about what constitutes good judgment in Dictator Games, Commons Dilemma, and Prisoner's Dilemma: Lay rationality is reductionist and instrumental, whereas reasonableness integrates preferences with particulars and moral concerns.

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is inconsistently associated with depression. These associations may depend on factors such as biological sex, age, and health status. Identifying such factors may help optimize treatment of HIV and depression. We implemented a novel approach to examine interindividual variability in the association between ART agents and depressive symptoms. 3434 women living with HIV (WLWH) from the Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) were computationally divided into subgroups based on sociodemographic (e.g., age) and longitudinal (from 1995 to 2016) behavioral and clinical profiles (e.g., substance use, HIV RNA, CD4 counts). Five subgroups (n's ranged from 482 to 802) were identified and characterized as those with: controlled HIV/vascular comorbidities; profound HIV legacy effects; younger women [<45 years of age] with hepatitis C; primarily 35-55 year olds; and poorly controlled HIV/substance use. Within each subgroup, we examined associations between ART agents used over the past 6 months and item-level depressive symptoms on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale. Tenofovir (4 of 5 subgroups) followed by efavirenz, emtricitabine, stavudine, lopinavir, etravirine, nelfinavir, ritonavir, and maraviroc were the most common agents associated with depressive symptoms, although the pattern and directionality varied by subgroup. For example, lopinavir was associated with fewer symptoms among the subgroup with a legacy HIV effect but more symptoms among the subgroup with well-controlled HIV/vascular comorbidities. Unexpectedly, dolutegravir and raltegravir were not associated with depressive symptoms among any subgroup. Findings underscore marked interindividual variability in ART agents on depression in WLWH. Sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral factors are important determinants of the relationship between ART agents and depressive symptoms in WLWH. Graphical Abstract Are antiretroviral agents a risk factor for depressive symptoms in women with HIV? We examined associations between ART-agents and depressive symptoms among similar subgroups of women with HIV from the Women's Interagency HIV Study. The patterns of associations depended on sociodemographic, clinical, and behavioral characteristics of women.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: In clinical psychiatry and mental health nursing practice, family caregivers are known to provide the bulk of care and play an important role in facilitating recovery outcomes for their loved ones diagnosed with psychosis. Providing services and interventions to family caregivers is as important as to patients in the early stage of psychotic experience for having a beneficial impact on the patients' clinical and social outcomes. Limited qualitative research has focused on family caregivers' subjective views of what they need during the critical period to identify early warning signs and connect their loved ones to professional help as they have no prior experience in caring for persons with psychosis. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Using qualitative analysis of family caregiver focus groups, this manuscript provides readers in clinical nursing practice with an understanding of family caregivers' lived experiences of supporting their loved one diagnosed with early psychosis. Understanding family caregivers' caregiving unmet needs in supporting their loved one diagnosed with early psychosis could inform both the technology-assisted intervention development and nursing practice in improving family-centred care and facilitate self-management practice. IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING: Psychiatry and mental health nursing has long been engaged with the health and well-being of individuals with psychosis and supporting their families in the development, evaluation and implementation of innovative approaches to patient and family education. Digital technologies designed to deliver tailored intervention for family caregivers are underdeveloped, and the present study identifies a number of potential features that could comprise technology to meet the needs of this population. ABSTRACT: Introduction Caregivers play a critical role in detecting and managing psychotic symptoms before young people diagnosed with early psychosis present to care. Little is known about the specific needs of caregivers in navigating pathways to care for their loved one. Aim The purpose of this study was to understand the needs of family caregivers and their ways of coping on the pathway to care for early psychosis. Method Twenty family caregivers of individuals diagnosed with early psychosis participated in three focus groups that explored caregiving needs provision for early psychosis. Thematic analysis was conducted. Results We identified four major themes: education and skill training; raising wider awareness, such as police offers and teachers; adopting technologies for coping; and effective coping strategies. Implications for practice These findings provide important insights into caregiving needs and the ways for nurses to address those needs and better equip carers to recognize early symptoms, monitor behaviour changes and navigate care to support people with first-episode psychosis. Nursing researchers can use the information to develop on-demand and tailored family-centred intervention in addressing caregivers' needs in education, increasing awareness of early psychosis and fostering effective coping strategies.

Physical, psychological and sexual intimate partner violence (IPV) has been described in the literature as different types of IPV experienced by women during pregnancy all over the world. To review and summarise systematically the empirical evidence on the links between IPV during pregnancy and the perinatal health of mothers and fetuses/neonates. MEDLINE (Ovid), CINAHL, Embase, Nursing@ovid (Ovid) and LILACS were searched (2008-2018). Observational studies that examined perinatal health outcomes (i.e. pre-term birth, low birthweight, miscarriage, perinatal death and premature rupture of membranes) in pregnant women exposed to IPV. Information on study characteristics, type of IPV measured, study design, methodological quality and outcome variable extracted. Fifty studies were included. Twenty-nine analysed undifferentiated IPV (n = 25 489), 34 included physical IPV (n = 7333), 22 analysed psychological IPV (n = 7833) and 18 examined sexual IPV (n = 2388). Fifteen studies were from Asia, 12 from North America and Oceania, and 12 from Central and South America. The studies examined the association between IPV and 39 different perinatal health outcomes. The most frequent outcomes reported were pre-term birth (50%), low birthweight (46%), miscarriage (30%), perinatal death (20%) and premature rupture of membranes (20%). A significant association with perinatal health outcomes was reported by 12 of the studies analysing undifferentiated IPV, 18 physical IPV, six psychological IPV and two sexual IPV. The relation between IPV and perinatal health outcomes can be seen in different epidemiological designs and countries. In all, 39 different outcomes were identified and 29 were associated with IPV. A variety of poor perinatal health outcomes are associated with psychological, physical and sexual IPV.

Socio-Economic Differences in the Lausanne CoLaus Cohort 

Abstract.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Aggressive behaviour is a major problem in clinical practice of mental health care and can result in the use of coercive measures. Coercive measures are dangerous for psychiatric patients and international mental healthcare works on the elimination of these interventions. There is no previous review that summarizes the attitude of nursing staff towards coercive measures and the influence of nursing staff characteristics on attitude towards and the use of coercive measures. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The attitude of nurses shifted from a therapeutic paradigm (coercive measures have positive effects on patients) to a safety paradigm (coercive measures are undesirable, but necessary for the wards' safety). Nurses express the need for less coercive interventions to prevent seclusion and restraint, but their perception of intrusiveness is influenced by how often they use specific coercive measures. The knowledge from scientific literature on the influence of nursing staff on coercive measures is highly inconclusive, although the feeling of safety of nurses might prove to be promising for further research. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is need for increased attention specifically for the feeling of safety of nurses, to better equip nurses for their difficult work on acute mental health wards. ABSTRACT: Introduction The use of coercive measures generally has negative effects on patients. To help prevent its use, professionals need insight into what nurses believe about coercion and which staff determinants may influence its application. There is need for an integrated review on both attitude and influence of nurses on the use of coercion. Aim To summarize literature concerning attitude of nurses towards coercive measures and the influence of staff characteristics on the use of coercive measures. Method Systematic review. Results The attitude of nurses changed during the last two decades from a therapeutic to a safety paradigm. Nurses currently view coercive measures as undesirable, but necessary to deal with aggression. Nurses express the need for less intrusive interventions, although familiarity probably influences its perceived intrusiveness. Literature on the relation between staff characteristics and coercive measures is inconclusive. Discussion Nurses perceive coercive measures as unwanted but still necessary to maintain safety on psychiatric wards. Focussing on the determinants of perception of safety might be a promising direction for future research. Implications for practice Mental health care could improve the focus on the constructs of perceived safety and familiarity with alternative interventions to protect patients from unnecessary use of coercive interventions.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The use of chemical restraint in emergency situations is to control aggression or violence to protect consumers and staff and is to be used as a last resort when all other behavioural control alternatives have been exhausted. Chemical restraint involves the use of medication. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first paper to systematically review the prevalence of the use of chemical restraint. The use of chemical restraint is common across emergency departments and acute psychiatric inpatient units worldwide. Consumers who are restrained are also likely to receive chemical restraint. The studies reviewed demonstrate that there is a need for more standardized data collection so that clearer comparisons can be made between healthcare settings and countries. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Implications of practice include the need to report adverse events post-chemical restraint as these can deleteriously affect a person's physical health. Identification of and staff education about first-line management techniques before chemical restraint is administered are significant to reduce its use. ABSTRACT: Introduction Chemical restraint is used to manage uncontrolled aggression, agitation or violent behaviours of consumers with mental health disorders admitted to acute psychiatric or emergency settings. Aim This systematic review aimed to synthesize the international prevalence of chemical restraint for non-consenting adults. Method PsycINFO, CINAHL, MEDLINE/PubMed and Google Scholar databases were searched for peer-reviewed literature published between January 1996 and July 2018. This paper reports on data extracted from retrospective audits of chemical restraint practice. Results Forty-eight papers were included. The median prevalence of use of any restraint was 21.2% (25th% 8.0 to 75th% 36.3). Median prevalence of people who were chemically restrained, of all people restrained in any manner, was 43.1% (25th% 22.9% to 75th% 70.7%). Of all people admitted to facility(ies), the median prevalence of chemical restraint was 7.4% (25th% 2.7 to 75th% 17.6). There was no statistically significant difference in any prevalence measure considering healthcare setting or country. There was a significant decrease over the review period in the use of any restraint, including chemical restraint. Discussion and implications for practice This is the first known comprehensive meta-view of chemical restraint use worldwide, highlighting the need for standardized data collection to enable comparisons between healthcare settings and countries. Relevance statement There is an international imperative to reduce or eliminate the use of coercive practices, such as physical and chemical restraint, in mental health care. This study provides important information for mental health nursing by synthesizing the international prevalence of chemical restraint for non-consenting adults. This meta-view of the worldwide use of chemical restraint can inform ongoing efforts to reduce its use.

Previous studies found conflicting results about whether hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is associated with depression or anxiety. To determine the relationship of HS with depression and anxiety. A systematic review was performed of published observational studies in MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, Global Resource for Eczema Trials (GREAT), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS), Cochrane, Scopus, and PsychInfo that analyzed depression or anxiety in HS. Two reviewers performed title/abstract review and data extraction. Meta-analysis was performed with random-effects weighting. Thirty-eight studies met inclusion criteria; 27 had sufficient data for meta-analysis. The prevalences of depression (26.5% vs 6.6%) and anxiety (18.1% vs 7.1%) were higher in persons with versus without HS. Patients with HS had higher odds of depression in 12 of 13 studies and pooled analysis (odds ratio, 2.54; 95% confidence interval, 2.15-3.01), and anxiety in 6 of 6 studies and pooled analysis (odds ratio, 2.00; 95% confidence interval, 1.66-2.42). Similar results were found in sensitivity analyses for different methods of HS diagnosis (physician diagnosed and chart review) and control groups (healthy and dermatologic control individuals). HS was associated with higher antidepressant and anxiolytic use and with suicidality, but not mean depression and anxiety scale scores. Individual-level data were unavailable. Patients with HS have higher odds of depression, anxiety, and suicidality.

The aim of this study was to perform a systematic review of scientific papers that used spatial analysis tools in cases of leishmaniasis, in Brazil. The search for articles was carried out in PubMed, SciELO, Scopus and Web of Science databases. The keywords used in the identification of the articles were Thematic map AND Leishmaniasis, Spatial analysis AND Leishmaniasis, and Geoprocessing AND Leishmaniasis, in English language. A total of 360 articles were found, and 11 of them were analyzed after screening by title and abstract as well as reading of the full articles. The States studied were Sao Paulo, Acre, Maranhao, Piaui, Minas Gerais, Parana and Tocantins. Cutaneous leishmaniasis occurred predominantly in rural areas, with clusters in forest reserve regions or modified forest areas. Conversely, visceral leishmaniasis mainly occurred in peripheral and central urban areas associated with poorer environments and urban infrastructure, including worse sanitation. We conclude that the spatial distribution of leishmaniasis is closely related to the living environment of the risk population. The analyzed articles associated geospatial data with some risk factors for the disease, pointing out the locations where most cases occur, creating a relevant source to define control strategies.

Mass transit environments, such as subways, are uniquely important for transmission of microbes among humans and built environments, and for their ability to spread pathogens and impact large numbers of people. In order to gain a deeper understanding of microbiome dynamics in subways, we must identify variables that affect microbial composition and those microorganisms that are unique to specific habitats. We performed high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing of air and surface samples from 16 subway stations in Oslo, Norway, across all four seasons. Distinguishing features across seasons and between air and surface were identified using random forest classification analyses, followed by in-depth diversity analyses. There were significant differences between the air and surface bacterial communities, and across seasons. Highly abundant groups were generally ubiquitous; however, a large number of taxa with low prevalence and abundance were exclusively present in only one sample matrix or one season. Among the highly abundant families and genera, we found that some were uniquely so in air samples. In surface samples, all highly abundant groups were also well represented in air samples. This is congruent with a pattern observed for the entire dataset, namely that air samples had significantly higher within-sample diversity. We also observed a seasonal pattern: diversity was higher during spring and summer. Temperature had a strong effect on diversity in air but not on surface diversity. Among-sample diversity was also significantly associated with air/surface, season, and temperature. The results presented here provide the first direct comparison of air and surface bacterial microbiomes, and the first assessment of seasonal variation in subways using culture-independent methods. While there were strong similarities between air and surface and across seasons, we found both diversity and the abundances of certain taxa to differ. This constitutes a significant step towards understanding the composition and dynamics of bacterial communities in subways, a highly important environment in our increasingly urbanized and interconnect world. Video abstract.

In recent years, numerous state and local health departments have developed systems to disclose restaurant inspection results to consumers. Public disclosure of restaurant inspection results can reduce transmission of foodborne illness by driving improvements in sanitary conditions. In Minnesota, restaurant inspection results are not readily accessible for consumers to use to make decisions about where to eat. The objective of this study was to assess the consumer interest among Minnesota adults in having better access to restaurant inspection results and to identify preferred formats for disseminating this information. We conducted a survey among 1,188 Minnesota residents aged 18 years or older at the 2019 Minnesota State Fair. Overall, 94.4% of respondents wanted better access to restaurants' inspection information. More than three-quarters (77.1%) of respondents stated that they would use this information to decide where to eat. Respondents wanted to see inspection results online (71.6%) and at restaurants (62.1%). Increasing public access to inspection results could reinforce efforts by public health agencies and food service operators to improve the safety of foods prepared away from home.

To review effective models of community health worker (CHW) involvement in preventive care for disadvantaged culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) patients in primary healthcare (PHC) that may be applicable to the Australian context. Systematic scoping review. The studies were gathered through searching Medline, EMBASE, EMCARE, PsycINFO, CINAHL and online portals of relevant organisations. All selected studies were original research studies which essentially evaluated preventive intervention undertake by CHWs in PHC. The intervened population were adults with or without diagnosed chronic health disease, culturally and linguistically diverse, or vulnerable due to geographic, economic and/or cultural characteristics that impede or compromise their access to healthcare. Data extraction was undertaken systematically in an excel spreadsheet while the findings were synthesised in a narrative manner. The quality appraisal of the selected studies was performed using effective public health practice project quality assessment tool. A total of 1066 articles were identified during the initial search of six bibliographic databases. After screening the title, abstract and full text, 37 articles met the selection and methodological criteria and underwent data extraction. A high-quality evidence-base supporting the positive impact of CHWs supporting patients' access to healthcare and influencing positive behaviour change was found. Positive impacts of CHW interventions included improvements in clinical disease indicators, screening rates and behavioural change. Education-focused interventions were more effective in improving patient behaviour, whereas navigation interventions were most effective in improving access to services. Implementation was enhanced by cultural and linguistic congruence and specific training of CHWs in the intervention but reduced by short duration interventions, dropouts and poor adherence of patients. The evidence generated from this systematic scoping review demonstrates the contribution of CHWs to improving access to preventive care for patients from CALD and disadvantaged backgrounds by providing both education and navigational interventions. More research is needed on CHW training and the incorporation of CHWs into primary health care (PHC) teams.

Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is increasing in global prevalence. It is more common among people with poor social determinants of health (SDoH). Social determinants of health are typically considered at a population and community level; however, identifying and addressing the barriers related to SDoH at an individual and clinical level, could improve the self-management of T2DM. This literature review aimed to explore the methods and strategies used in clinical settings to identify and address the SDoH in individuals with T2DM. A systematic search of peer-reviewed literature using the electronic databases MEDLINE, CINAHL, Scopus and Informit was conducted between April and May 2017. Literature published between 2002 and 2017 was considered. Search results (n = 1,119) were screened by title and abstract against the inclusion and exclusion criteria and n = 56 were retained for full text screening. Nine studies met the inclusion criteria. Review and synthesis of the literature revealed written and phone surveys were the most commonly used strategy to identify social determinant-related barriers to self-management. Commonly known SDoH such as; income, employment, education, housing and social support were incorporated into the SDoH assessments. Limited strategies to address the identified social needs were revealed, however community health workers within the clinical team were the primary providers of social support. The review highlights the importance of identifying current and individually relevant social determinant-related issues, and whether they are perceived as barriers to T2DM self-management. Identifying self-management barriers related to SDoH, and addressing these issues in clinical settings, could enable a more targeted intervention based on individually identified social need. Future research should investigate more specific ways to incorporate SDoH into the clinical management of T2DM.

The Controlled Substance Act was enacted in efforts to reduce the abuse and misuse of opioid pain relievers. However, the effects of this regulation on the prescribing patterns of providers has yet to be realized. We sought to identify the changes in opioid-prescribing patterns of an elective colorectal surgical practice as a result of this legislative change. This is a retrospective study of patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery. Patients were intentionally grouped into group A (January 1, 2012 to October 5, 2014) and group B (October 6, 2014 to December 31, 2016) to capture the period surrounding the new legislation. We evaluated patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery at a single academic center over a 5-year period. There were 443 patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery between 2012 and 2016. The primary outcome was total milligram morphine equivalent of pain medication prescribed at discharge. Secondary outcomes included total number of pills prescribed, total milligram morphine equivalent of pain medication at subsequent prescriptions, and numeric postoperative pain scores. Patients in group B were found to have a greater mean total milligram morphine equivalent prescribed at discharge (719 (SD 593) vs 660 (SD 548), p = 0.03), mean total quantity of pills prescribed at discharge (98 (SD 106) vs 87 (SD 63), p = 0.05), and mean total quantity of pills prescribed as subsequent prescriptions (77 (SD 117) vs 68 (SD 83), p = 0.05) compared with group A. On multivariable analysis, group B was a significant predictor of greater total milligram morphine equivalents prescribed at discharge compared with group A (p = 0.01). This study is limited by analysis from a single institution. Efforts to minimize opioid prescriptions after surgery through legislation could result in unintended consequences. Recognition of this result is important to effectively reduce opioid prescriptions after surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/B96. UNA CONSECUENCIA NO DESEADA DE UNA NUEVA LEGISLACIÓN DE OPIOIDES: La Ley de Sustancias Controladas se promulgó con el fin de reducir el abuso y el uso indebido de analgésicos opioides. Sin embargo, los efectos de esta regulación en los patrones de prescripción de los proveedores aún no se han realizado.Se intento identificar los cambios en los patrones de prescripción de opioides de una práctica quirúrgica colorrectal electiva como resultado de este cambio legislativo.Este es un estudio retrospectivo de pacientes sometidos a cirugía colorrectal electiva. Los pacientes fueron agrupados intencionalmente en el Grupo A (1 de enero de 2012 al 5 de octubre de 2014) y el Grupo B (6 de octubre de 2014 al 31 de diciembre de 2016) para capturar el período que rodea la nueva legislación.Se evaluaron a los pacientes sometidos a cirugía colorrectal electiva en un solo centro académico durante un período de 5 años.Hubo 443 pacientes que se sometieron a cirugía colorrectal electiva entre 2012-2016.La medida de resultado primaria fue el equivalente de miligramos de morfina total de los analgésicos prescritos al momento del alta. Las medidas de resultado secundarias incluyeron el número total de píldoras prescritas, el equivalente total de miligramos de morfina de la medicación para el dolor en las prescripciones posteriores y las puntuaciones numéricas de dolor postoperatorio.Se encontró que los pacientes en el Grupo B tenían un equivalente de miligramos de morfina total total mayor prescrito al alta (719 [DE 593] v. 660 [DE 548], p = 0.03), cantidad total promedio de píldoras prescritas al alta (98 [SD 106] v. 87 [SD 63], p = 0.05), y la cantidad total promedio de píldoras recetadas como recetas posteriores (77 [SD 117] v. 68 [SD 83], p = 0.05) en comparación con el Grupo A. En análisis multivariable, el Grupo B fue un predictor significativo de mayores equivalentes de morfina en miligramos totales prescritos al alta en comparación con el grupo A (p = 0.01).Este estudio está limitado por el análisis de una sola instituciónLos esfuerzos para minimizar las recetas de opioides después de la cirugía a través de la legislación podrían tener consecuencias no deseadas. El reconocimiento de este resultado es importante para reducir eficazmente las recetas de opioides después de la cirugía. Consulte Video Resumen en http://links.lww.com/DCR/B96.

In the present study, we measured whether competence-related high and low social status attributed to two unknown individuals affects participants' implicit reactivity to abstract stimuli associated to the identity of the same individuals. During a status-inducing procedure, participants were asked to play an interactive game with two (fake) players coded as high vs low status based on their game competence. Before and after the game, a modified version of the Affective Misattribution Procedure (AMP) was administered in which the players' faces were used as primes. The evaluation target, as is typical to AMP, was a Chinese ideogram. There were two different presentation timings for the prime image: 75 ms and 17 ms. After the status-inducing procedure, the evaluation targets preceded by the high-status prime (i.e. best player's face) were rated as more pleasant than those preceded by the low-status prime (i.e. worst player's face). This effect was only found, however, for the 75 ms lasting prime. Moreover, explicit ratings of the primes showed that the high-status player was rated as more intelligent, competent and dominant than the low status one. These results indicate that implicit preference and explicit evaluation of unacquainted individuals are rapidly modulated by competence-based social status attribution, thus hinting at the plastic nature of social categorization and, relatedly, the malleability of visual preference.

The earliest microbial colonizers of the human gut can have life-long consequences for their hosts. Precisely how the neonatal gut bacterial microbiome and virome are initially populated is not well understood. To better understand how the maternal gut microbiome influences acquisition of the infant gut microbiome, we studied the early life bacterial microbiomes and viromes of 28 infant twin pairs and their mothers. Infant bacterial and viral communities more closely resemble those of their related co-twin than unrelated infants. We found that 63% of an infant's bacterial microbiome can be traced to their mother's gut microbiota. In contrast, only 15% of their viral communities are acquired from their mother. Delivery route did not determine how much of the bacterial microbiome or virome was shared from mother to infant. However, bacteria-bacteriophage interactions were altered by delivery route. The maternal gut microbiome significantly influences infant gut microbiome acquisition. Vertical transmission of the bacterial microbiome is substantially higher compared to vertical transmission of the virome. However, the degree of similarity between the maternal and infant gut bacterial microbiome and virome did not vary by delivery route. The greater similarity of the bacterial microbiome and virome between twin pairs than unrelated twins may reflect a shared environmental exposure. Thus, differences of the inter-generation transmissibility at birth between the major kingdoms of microbes indicate that the foundation of these microbial communities are shaped by different rules. Video Abstract.

Company-reported payments from the Open Payments database (OP) have been compared with self-disclosed financial relationships made by physician authors. Discrepancies have been viewed as under-reporting of financial relationships. Our goal was to perform a systematic comparison to determine sources of discordance between company-reported and self-reported financial relationships. Financial disclosures reported by 163 authors and presenters who published in  Overall concordance between disclosures to ASCO and payments in OP was 16% for company and category matching and 24% for matching on the basis of company only. Authors tended to report more disclosures for research and consulting to ASCO than appear in OP. Expense disclosures were more frequently reported in OP than to ASCO. No payments were categorized as ownership in OP, but 35 authors/presenters disclosed ownership (including stock) to ASCO. Our results reveal substantial discordance between self-reported and company-reported financial relationships for authors who report clinical oncology research. These findings support the calls for development of standardized disclosure policies across medicine.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Positive aspects of care are considered an essential part of caregiving research. They have been related to a wide range of dimensions of the caregiving circumstances, but there are few valid, reliable and brief measures to assess them. One of the most frequently used internationally is the Positive Aspects of Caregiving (PAC) scale, whose psychometric properties have received little attention. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The present study analyses the psychometric properties of the Portuguese version of the PAC scale in a sample of informal caregivers of someone with dementia and further explores the association of different factors (e.g. caregiver health, sociodemographic variables) with the PAC. The Portuguese version of PAC scale presented good psychometric characteristics, and the factor analysis revealed the presence of two factors: affirming self and enriching life. Our study also verified that higher levels of PAC are more likely to be associated with better caregiver health perception, lower levels of psychological distress and burden, the care recipient's older age, providing care to more than one care recipient, not receiving social support services and not considering institutionalizing the care recipient. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Findings from this study can assist professionals, including mental health nurses, to develop and implement effective interventions that help dementia caregivers to maintain their emotional health by identifying and focusing specific positive aspects of care. The study stresses the Portuguese version of the PAC scale as a reliable and valid measure for practice. ABSTRACT: Introduction Positive aspects of care refer to the psychosocial benefits of caregiving. The Positive Aspects of Caregiving (PAC) scale is one of the instruments most frequently used internationally, but its psychometric properties and correlates within the caregiving experience have received limited attention. Aim To examine the factorial structure of the Portuguese version of PAC scale and to analyse background and contextual factors that are more likely to be associated with higher levels of PAC. Method The PAC scale, a sociodemographic questionnaire and measures assessing burden and physical and mental health were administered to 204 informal caregivers of dementia patients. Results Exploratory factor analysis revealed a two-factor structure; internal consistency was adequate. Higher scores were negatively correlated with caregiver burden and distress. Better health perception, care recipient's older age, providing care to more than one care recipient and overall self-reliance were correlated with higher levels of PAC. Discussion The PAC scale was found to be a reliable and valid measure. Dementia caregiving circumstances and caregivers' and care receivers' characteristics play an important role for the presence of PAC, but relate distinctively with its dimensions. Implications for Practice Findings can help mental health nurses to recognize distinctive relations between PAC and caregiving variables.

The practice of educating individuals (known as 'gatekeepers' [GK]) at the informal social level with the knowledge, skills, and confidence to identify an at-risk individual and provide support has been shown as an effective suicide prevention method. Despite the efficacy of gatekeeper training (GKT) in the short-term, there are concerns over the long-term efficacy of these outcomes. The objective of this review was to identify the empirical GKT studies in the literature that included evaluations at pre, post, and follow-up. Additionally, this review aimed to evaluate the long-term effect of training on GK behavior. PubMed, Cochrane Library, and PsycNET databases were searched using the terms 'gatekeeper' and 'suicid*' present in the title and/or the abstract, with the terms 'follow-up', 'pre-post', or 'long-term' present in any text. Studies must have involved a suicide prevention program intervention provided to general members of the community. Knowledge and self-efficacy were shown to exhibit the strongest endurance of training effect, although some decay was present for knowledge over time (M follow-up delay 6.1 months). Gatekeeper attitude at follow-up (M follow-up delay 4.4 months) had returned to baseline levels in 57% (4/7) of the identified studies that evaluated this construct. Behavioral intention and behavior both indicate a weak training effect with poor translation of training into intervention behavior. Findings indicate the ideological and socio-cultural aspects of individual GKs should also be addressed to facilitate the improved potential for long-term attitudinal change. Future research directions are discussed.

Telomere length (TL), sirtuin (SIRT) 1, growth differentiation factor (GDF) 11, as well as inflammaging have been related to age-related diseases. In healthy subjects, we aimed to investigate whether leukocyte TL (LTL) associated with family history of coronary heart disease (CHD), age, sex, and lifestyle, and further potential covariations between LTL, GDF11, SIRT1 and selected proinflammatory markers. In 118 healthy subjects (18-81 years, 58% females), whole blood was collected for DNA and RNA isolation and polymerase chain reaction relative quantification of LTLs and gene-expression of SIRT1, GDF11, interleukin (IL)-18, and interferon (IFN)ƴ, respectively, and serum SIRT1 and IL-18 analyses. Shorter LTLs were associated with a seven-fold higher frequency of hereditary CHD in subjects with LTLs in quartile (Q)1 compared with Q2-4 (odds ratio = 7.5, 95% confidence interval: 2.5-21.6, 

Mental health issues among farmers are identified population health concerns. While one systematic review focused on suicide in farming populations in the United States, there have been no scoping studies examining mental health in farming communities worldwide. The objectives of this scoping review were to: provide a descriptive analysis of the literature pertaining to mental health outcomes in farming populations; describe the international scope of the research; and highlight published mental health services and interventions that have been evaluated. Following Arksey and O'Malley's scoping review framework, five major health and science platforms were used to identify studies examining mental health outcomes in farming populations, worldwide. Studies that met a priori inclusion criteria that were published prior to December 31, 2017 were included in this review. Data synthesis and descriptive statistics were conducted using STATA 15® software; proportions were calculated by country. The initial literature search yielded 9,906 records. After title and abstract screening, 676 articles were reviewed in-full. Of these, 341 met a priori inclusion criteria. Studies included were conducted between 1979 and 2017; the majority (265; 77.7%) were published between 2002-2017. The most frequently measured outcomes were stress (41.9%), suicide (33.1%), and depression (32.6%). Over 70% of studies that examined stress described using quantitative research methods, most predominantly, cross-sectional designs (42.7%). Approximately 64% of studies that measured suicide reported using a quantitative approach; the largest proportion of included suicide studies (33.6%) described using cohort designs. Approximately 84% of studies that measured depression described using quantitative approaches; sixty percent of these studies reported using a cross-sectional study design. Twenty included studies described a mental health service or intervention (5.9%). This scoping review provides a critical overview of the literature examining mental health outcomes in farming populations worldwide. Given the importance of farming and agriculture, this review can be used to ensure future research complements existing work, avoids unnecessary overlap, and begins to tackle the less-studied mental health outcomes amongst farmers. These results can guide researchers to identified gaps in research and services, leading to a more informed approach to future work, and ultimately, a more comprehensive understanding of mental health among farmers worldwide.

To study if childhood emotional, physical and sexual abuse are determinants for having an unplanned pregnancy, if the categories of abuse interact, and if a potential bias due to the selection of the participants (collider stratification bias) could explain the effect of childhood abuse. A cross-sectional study. The study is based on the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study (MoBa) and uses data from the Medical Birth Registry of Norway. Women participating in the MoBa for the first time, ≥18 years of age who responded to questions regarding childhood abuse and pregnancy planning (n = 76 197). Data were collected using questionnaires. We conducted analyses using modified Poisson regressions and the relative excess risks due to interaction (RERI). Sensitivity analyses were performed. An unplanned pregnancy (yes/no). Exposure to childhood emotional (adjusted relative risk [RR] 1.14, 95% CI 1.10-1.19), physical (adjusted RR 1.11, 95% CI 1.04-1.18) and sexual (adjusted RR 1.20, 95% CI 1.14-1.27) abuse increased the risk of having an unplanned pregnancy. The effects could not be explained by the collider stratification bias. The different combinations of categories of abuse did not show any interaction effects. Childhood emotional, physical and sexual abuses separately increase the risk of having an unplanned pregnancy. The results indicate that victims of childhood abuse are in greater need of support to achieve their reproductive goals. Childhood abuse increases the risk of having an unplanned pregnancy. #reproductivehealth #epitwitter.

Though sex/gender is an important social determinant of health, sex/gender inequalities have not been considered comprehensively in environmental health research thus far. The aim of this systematic review was to clarify whether sex/gender theoretical concepts were addressed in studies on the impact of residential green space on self-rated health and whether effect modification by sex/gender was observed. Three electronic databases were searched to identify epidemiological studies on perceived or objective residential green/blue space and self-rated health. Necessary for study inclusion was mentioning at least one keyword for sex/gender in title or abstract, adult study participants and data on self-rated health and on availability and/or use of green/blue spaces. Decisive for study inclusion was consideration of sex/gender differences in the impact of perceived or objective residential green/blue spaces on self-rated health in the analysis and presentation of results. Seven studies were included. They presented an overall positive impact of green space on self-rated health. No consistent sex/gender differences in the impact of green space on self-rated health were found in these studies. However, all studies used a binary operationalization male/female without further theoretical foundation. Research quality could be enhanced by integrating sex/gender-theoretical concepts into study design and interpretation of results.

The rising prevalence of childhood obesity is a global public health concern. Evidence suggests that exposure to non-parental childcare before age six years is associated with development of obesity, diet, and activity behaviours (physical activity, sedentary behaviour, and sleep). However, findings are inconsistent and mostly from cross-sectional studies, making it difficult to identify the direction of causation in associations. This review identified and synthesised the published research on longitudinal associations between non-parental childcare during early childhood, diet, and activity behaviours. Seven databases were searched, and results were independently double-screened through title/abstract and full-text stages. Included studies were evaluated for risk of bias. Of the 18,793 references screened, 13 met eligibility criteria and were included in the review. These presented results on 89 tested childcare/outcome associations, 63 testing diet outcomes (59% null, remainder mixed), and 26 testing activity behaviour outcomes (85% null, remainder mixed). The scarce available literature indicates little and mixed evidence of a longitudinal association. This reflects a paucity of research, rather than clear evidence of no effect. There is an urgent need for studies investigating the longitudinal associations of non-parental childcare on diet and activity behaviours to assess potential lasting effects and mechanisms; whether and how effects vary by provider; and differences by intensity, duration, and population sub-groups.

Engaging in trauma-informed approaches in nonforensic mental health settings improves therapeutic relationships, promotes healing, promotes posttraumatic growth, improves staff well-being, and fosters hope and empowerment, yet little is known of its influences in forensic settings. This literature review explores trauma-informed education and its training implications for nurses working in forensic mental health. Using a range of electronic databases, a systematic search of literature was carried out focusing on trauma-informed practice in adult forensic mental health settings. Before searching, predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria were agreed. After duplication removal, abstract review, and full screening, nine articles met review criteria for inclusion. A thematic analysis of the literature identified two key themes: "education for trauma-informed practice" and "applying theory into practice." Each had several subordinate themes. Organizations and their staff must recognize that operational change and ongoing training will be required. By adopting a trauma-informed approach, forensic mental health nurses can better understand their patients' traumatic experiences, improve their therapeutic relationships, and engage patients in collaborative care. Training in trauma-informed care should start with nurses who will change their personal practice and can support and train their colleagues.

Associations with colors are a rich source of meaning, and there has been considerable interest in understanding the capacity of color to shape our functioning and behavior as a result of color associations. However, abstract conceptual color associations have not been comprehensively investigated, and many of the effects of color on psychological functioning reported in the literature are therefore reliant on ad hoc rationalizations of conceptual associations with color (e.g., blue = openness) to explain effects. In the present work we conduct a systematic, cross-cultural, mapping of conceptual color associations using the full set of hues from the World Color Survey (WCS). In Experiments 1a and 1b we explored the conceptual associations that English monolingual, Chinese bilingual, and Chinese monolingual speaking adults have with each of the 11 Basic English Color Terms (black, white, red, yellow, green, blue, brown, purple, pink, orange, gray). In Experiment 2 we determined which specific physical WCS colors are associated with which concepts in these three language groups. The findings reveal conceptual color associations that appear to be universal across all cultures (e.g., white - 

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental health treatments have become patient-centred. Evaluating recovery in people with mental health difficulties living in the community can help to develop better client-centred services. Community integration is critical to recovery in patients with mental health difficulties. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first study to use a single integrated measure of mental health recovery to evaluate the effect of community integration. Physical community integration was the easiest goal for most to reach. Developing independence/self-actualization was harder. In mental health recovery, most people were able to overcome stuckness. Developing abilities for basic functioning was harder. Participating in mental health centre day programmes promoted mental health recovery in people with mental health difficulties living in the community. Independence/self-actualization, psychological integration and social support improved mental health recovery in people with mental health difficulties living in the community. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is a need to develop and actively promote programmes that attract people with mental health difficulties living in the community so that they will actively use mental health centre services. Offering systematic social skills training and occupational rehabilitation therapy to people with mental health difficulties living in the community may help them function independently. Mental health service programmes should provide volunteer opportunities for people with mental health difficulties living in the community to facilitate a sense of belonging. Mental health nurses should serve as a social support resource for people with mental health difficulties living in the community by providing education to family and friends on how to support patients' recovery, and invigorating integration projects such as "making healthy friends." Abstract Introduction Although community integration of people with mental health difficulties and a consumer-centred recovery paradigm are of global importance, little research has been conducted on community integration factors that directly affect mental health recovery. Aim This study investigated the relationship between community integration and mental health recovery in people with mental health difficulties living in the community in South Korea. Method Data were collected from 155 people with mental health difficulties living in the community, using the Self-Reporting Scale of Community Integration and the Mental Health Recovery Measure (Korean version), and analysed using hierarchical regression analysis. Results Among the community integration subscales, independence/self-actualization, psychological integration and social support were significant factors in mental health recovery, explaining 47.3% of the variance. Discussion An effective intervention strategy for mental health recovery of people with mental health difficulties living in the community may reinforce community integration by carefully considering independence/self-actualization, psychological integration and social support. Implications for practice Mental health nurses should provide intervention to people with mental health difficulties living in the community to help them develop strategies for functioning independently, experiencing a sense of achievement and developing a sense belonging in the community.

Existing qualitative research has found inpatient service users to experience seclusion as highly distressing, with feelings of vulnerability, abuse and neglect often featuring in participants' accounts. The physical environment of the seclusion room and the interaction with clinical staff shape service users' personal seclusion experience. The majority of research on this topic focuses on seclusion within other restrictive practices. This paper provides new knowledge on one specific component of seclusion, the experience of being in the room, and draws attention to the specific psychological needs of service users during that aspect of their experience. This research provides new knowledge by exclusively exploring forensic inpatients' experience of the seclusion room, an under researched and often stigmatized population. The findings support the need for a caring and non-threatening therapeutic interaction with a secluded service user for the duration of time they are in the seclusion room. The findings suggest that necessary nursing procedures, such as observations, should be carried out discretely and sensitively to avoid service users feeling abused and frightened. Introduction Contemporary qualitative research has explored service users' experience of seclusion and has found it to be a highly distressing and potentially traumatizing experience for service users. The majority of the existing literature has researched seclusion within the context of other restrictive practices, resulting in findings that can only be considered an overview of the experience. The studies also rarely access participants with histories of considerable violence and imprisonment. Question What is forensic psychiatric inpatients' experience of being in a seclusion room? Method Seven inpatients in a medium secure hospital were interviewed, and interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA) was used to analyse the data. Results Four superordinate themes were identified: "intense fear," 'not getting the care I needed," 'I am being abused" and "power struggle." Discussion While participants were in the seclusion room, they experienced extreme fear. Staff interaction played a considerable role in shaping the participants' experience. Staff actions were interpreted as neglectful and abusive. Participants experienced struggling for power with staff, seeking out power when left in a powerless position. Implications for practice These findings suggested that a carefully tailored therapeutic interaction is required during seclusion in order to safeguard the mental health of forensic inpatients.

Understanding universal vulnerability as inherent in human beings raises questions about the use of differentiating and stigmatizing terms such as vulnerable populations, by which individuals are grouped together based on perceived dissimilarity, deviance, or victimhood. Understanding human vulnerability also calls into question concepts, such as individual responsibility and consent, currently relied upon to resolve ethical and legal dilemmas. When normalized, vulnerability provides a powerful and inclusive conceptual tool that can help us define individual, professional, and institutional responsibility in situations of inherent inequality, such as that of researcher/research subject or doctor/patient. An appreciation of our universal vulnerability and the limitations it entails encourages richer and more robust policies and practices than are currently afforded by referring to abstract and individualistic concepts such as autonomy, equality, or independence. In particular, recognition of universal vulnerability reveals the ways in which all human beings inexorably depend on social relationships and institutions throughout the life course.

Youth often experience unique pathways into homelessness, such as family conflict, child abuse and neglect. Most research has focused on adult homeless populations, yet youth have specific needs that require adapted interventions. This review aims to synthesize evidence on interventions for youth and assess their impacts on health, social, and equity outcomes. We systematically searched Medline, Embase, PsycINFO, and other databases from inception until February 9, 2018 for systematic reviews and randomized controlled trials on youth interventions conducted in high income countries. We screened title and abstract and full text for inclusion, and data extraction were completed in duplicate, following the PRISMA-E (equity) review approach. Our search identified 11,936 records. Four systematic reviews and 18 articles on randomized controlled trials met the inclusion criteria. Many studies reported on interventions including individual and family therapies, skill-building, case management, and structural interventions. Cognitive behavioural therapy led to improvements in depression and substance use, and studies of three family-based therapies reported decreases in substance use. Housing first, a structural intervention, led to improvements in housing stability. Many interventions showed inconsistent results compared to services as usual or other interventions, but often led to improvements over time in both the intervention and comparison group. The equity analysis showed that equity variables were inconsistently measured, but there was data to suggest differential outcomes based upon gender and ethnicity. This review identified a variety of interventions for youth experiencing homelessness. Promising interventions include cognitive behavioural therapy for addressing depression, family-based therapy for substance use outcomes, and housing programs for housing stability. Youth pathways are often unique and thus prevention and treatment may benefit from a tailored and flexible approach.

Hospice care is designed for persons in the final phase of a terminal illness. However, hospice care is not used appropriately. Some persons who do not meet the hospice eligibility receive hospice care, while many persons who may have benefitted from hospice care do not receive it. This study aimed to examine the characteristics of, and one-year survivorship among, residents who received hospice care versus those who did not in long-term care facilities (LTCFs) in Canada. This retrospective cohort study used linked health administrative data from the Canadian Continuing Reporting System (CCRS) and the Discharge Abstract Database (DAD). All persons who resided in a LTCF and who had a Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set Version 2.0 (RAI-MDS 2.0) assessment in the CCRS database between Jan. 1st, 2015 and Dec 31st, 2015 were included in this study (N = 185,715). Death records were linked up to Dec 31th, 2016. Univariate, bivariate and multivariate analyses were performed. The reported hospice care rate in LTCFs is critically low (less than 3%), despite one in five residents dying within 3 months of the assessment. Residents who received hospice care and died within 1 year were found to have more severe and complex health conditions than other residents. Compared to those who did not receive hospice care but died within 1 year, residents who received hospice care and were alive 1 year following the assessment were younger (a mean age of 79.4 [+ 13.5] years vs. 86.5 [+ 9.2] years), more likely to live in an urban LTCF (93.2% vs. 82.6%), had a higher percentage of having a diagnosis of cancer (50.7% vs. 12.9%), had a lower percentage of having a diagnosis of dementia (30.2% vs. 54.5%), and exhibited more severe acute clinical conditions. The actual use of hospice care among LTCF residents is very poor in Canada. Several factors emerged as potential barriers to hospice use in the LTCF population including ageism, rurality, and a diagnosis of dementia. Improved understanding of hospice use and one-year survivorship may help LTCFs administrators, hospice care providers, and policy makers to improve hospice accessibility in this target group.

To determine whether socioeconomic deprivation affects IVF outcome independent of the number of cycles undertaken. A retrospective review of prospectively collected data. A tertiary level fertility clinic in the North of England. All participants undergoing their first fresh single-embryo transfer, funded by the National Health Service (NHS), between January 2012 and December 2017. For each case, identified from the clinic database, we recorded the following: age; body mass index; FSH; number of eggs retrieved; ethnicity; cause of subfertility; stage of embryo transfer; and whether any adjuncts i.e. EmbryoGlue Clinical pregnancy (CP) and live birth (LB) rates across IMD quintiles. Three thousand ninety-one women were included. Overall, CP and LB rates were 35.9% and 31.3% respectively. CP rates increased significantly from 31.0% in the most deprived group to 38.8% in the least deprived group (P < 0.01). Similarly, LB rates were significantly lower in the most deprived group compared with the least deprived group (26.8 versus 35.4%, P < 0.01). After adjusting for confounding variables, women in the least deprived group were significantly more likely to have a LB (aRR 1.18, 95% CI 1.00-1.39) than women in the most deprived group. More socio-economically deprived patients are significantly less likely to achieve a LB than less deprived patients independent of the number of cycles of IVF undertaken. More deprived patients are less likely to have a LB per cycle of IVF than less deprived patients.

This study investigates the impact of the human capital index, globalization, and financial development on carbon dioxide of grouping OECD countries using pool mean group estimation technique from 1990 to 2015. This study also applies the second-generation cross-sectional augmented Dickey-Fuller and cross-sectional Im, Pesaran, Shin panel (CIPS) unit root, and the latest (Westerlund 2008) cointegration tests for further investigations. The result shows that both the human development index and financial development stimulate environmental improvement by using PMG long-run panel estimation approach. Furthermore, the pairwise Dumitrescu-Hurlin panel causality results prove the two-way causal association between financial development and carbon emissions. The unidirectional causality running from globalization and human development index towards carbon emission is also supported. Based on the aforementioned results, we provide a set of recommendations for policy implication. Graphical abstract.

Interprofessional education (IPE) is a concept that allows students from different health professions to learn with and from each other as they gain knowledge about their chosen professions and the professions of their colleagues. The purpose of this systematic review was to determine the effectiveness of IPE in the academic preparation of students of the health professions. A search was conducted of the PubMed and CINAHL databases using the following eligibility criteria: IPE including students from 3 or more healthcare professions, IPE exposure within academic coursework, measurement of attitudes and/or perceptions as outcomes, and quantitative reporting of results. Articles were screened by title, abstract, and full text, and data were extracted. The search yielded 870 total articles. After screening, 7 articles remained for review. All studies reported a positive impact of IPE on the education of students of the health professions. Evidence showed that IPE activities were an effective tool for improving attitudes toward interdisciplinary teamwork, communication, shared problem-solving, and knowledge and skills in preparation for collaboration within interdisciplinary teams.

A systematic review was undertaken to characterize the training approaches that are currently being implemented in postgraduate medical education to teach residents advocacy skills. An initial search was conducted in MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, ERIC, and PsycINFO in November 2016 (updated in December 2017) for articles discussing postgraduate medical education interventions covering advocacy. Articles published between 1995 and 2017 were included. Two authors independently reviewed titles and abstracts (and, if needed, the full text) for inclusion; disagreements were resolved by consensus. Data were extracted from studies to characterize the content and pedagogy of the interventions by mapping them to the CanMEDS health advocate core competencies and key concepts. A total of 3,027 unique abstracts were retrieved; 2,864 were excluded upon title and abstract review, and another 85 were excluded upon full-text review. Seventy-eight total articles were included. More studies involved residents from pediatrics, psychiatry, primary care or preventative medicine, or internal medicine than from emergency medicine, surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, or neurology. Published interventions varied widely by pedagogical approach and assessment method. Using the CanMEDS framework, this review maps the breadth and nature of postgraduate medical education interventions in health advocacy, with applicability to community organizations, program directors, educators, and administrators working to develop advocacy training interventions. Areas of focus included adapting practice to respond to the needs of or advocacy in partnership with patients, communities, or populations served; determinants of health; health promotion; mobilizing resources as needed; and social accountability.

Nanotechnology-based delivery systems have been considered a promising approach for topical application, considering their characteristics of penetration into/across the skin. The present review aimed to evaluate the recent international scenario of patents concerning the use of nanotechnology- based delivery systems as skin penetration enhancers. A survey of recent patent documents was conducted by using the Espacenet patent database including the terms "skin" in the title and "promot* or enhanc* and penetrat* or absorp* or permeat*" and "nano*" with the truncation symbol (*) in the abstract of documents. A total of 110 patents were published from 2008 to 2018, with 94 technologies being considered. The results demonstrated an increase in innovations concerning nanotechnologybased delivery systems as skin penetration enhancers in recent years. Most patent applicants are from China (60.6%) and Korea (21.3%), and companies (68%) were the most prominent owners. The majority of patent applications (76%) were intended for cosmetic purposes; the types of products and nanostructures were also investigated. Overall results demonstrated the increased interest around the world in patenting products involving skin permeation promotion and nanotechnology for pharmaceutical and, mainly, for cosmetics purposes.

Taking regular exercise, whether cardiovascular-type exercise or resistance exercise, may help people to give up smoking, particularly by reducing cigarette withdrawal symptoms and cravings, and by helping to manage weight gain. To determine the effectiveness of exercise-based interventions alone, or combined with a smoking cessation programme, for achieving long-term smoking cessation, compared with a smoking cessation intervention alone or other non-exercise intervention. We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialised Register for studies, using the term 'exercise' or 'physical activity' in the title, abstract or keywords. The date of the most recent search was May 2019. We included randomised controlled trials that compared an exercise programme alone, or an exercise programme as an adjunct to a cessation programme, with a cessation programme alone or another non-exercise control group. Trials were required to recruit smokers wishing to quit or recent quitters, to assess abstinence as an outcome and have follow-up of at least six months. We followed standard Cochrane methods. Smoking cessation was measured after at least six months, using the most rigorous definition available, on an intention-to-treat basis. We calculated risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for smoking cessation for each study, where possible. We grouped eligible studies according to the type of comparison, as either smoking cessation or relapse prevention. We carried out meta-analyses where appropriate, using Mantel-Haenszel random-effects models. We identified 24 eligible trials with a total of 7279 adult participants randomised. Two studies focused on relapse prevention among smokers who had recently stopped smoking, and the remaining 22 studies were concerned with smoking cessation for smokers who wished to quit. Eleven studies were with women only and one with men only. Most studies recruited fairly inactive people. Most of the trials employed supervised, group-based cardiovascular-type exercise supplemented by a home-based exercise programme and combined with a multi-session cognitive behavioural smoking cessation programme. The comparator in most cases was a multi-session cognitive behavioural smoking cessation programme alone. Overall, we judged two studies to be at low risk of bias, 11 at high risk of bias, and 11 at unclear risk of bias. Among the 21 studies analysed, we found low-certainty evidence, limited by potential publication bias and by imprecision, comparing the effect of exercise plus smoking cessation support with smoking cessation support alone on smoking cessation outcomes (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.22; I There is no evidence that adding exercise to smoking cessation support improves abstinence compared with support alone, but the evidence is insufficient to assess whether there is a modest benefit. Estimates of treatment effect were of low or very low certainty, because of concerns about bias in the trials, imprecision and publication bias. Consequently, future trials may change these conclusions.

Land use conflict is a complex problem driven by a myriad of risk factors as a result of rapid socioeconomic development and urbanization. Analyzing the spatial characteristics of land use conflict and identifying its risk factors using statistical models will help us to better understand the causes and effects of the land use conflicts for sustainable management of the limited land resources under the pressure of rapid urbanization. In this study, regression models including multiple linear regression (MLR), spatial autoregressive (SAR), and geographically weighted regression (GWR) models were employed to identify risk factors for the land use spatial conflicts in the Urban Agglomeration around Hangzhou Bay (UAHB) of China in the past 25 years. Our results showed that the overall extent and the higher-level land use spatial conflicts were actually on the decline, and their spatial autocorrelation has been weakening in the UAHB. The key risk factors that mainly caused the land use spatial conflicts in the UHAB appeared to be different at the global and local scales. This knowledge should help urban managers and policymakers to be better informed when developing pertinent land use policies at the regional and local levels. This study also underlined the importance of considering spatial autocorrelation and scale effects when identifying the risk factors for land use spatial conflicts. The lessons learned from this particular context can be extended to other areas under rapid urbanization to assess and better manage their land resources for sustainable use. Graphical abstract.

Sibling comparison designs have long been used to assess causal effects of exposures for which randomized studies are impossible and measurement of all relevant confounding is unobtainable. The idea is to utilize the fact that siblings often share a lot of unobserved variables. Therefore, it is proposed that in certain cases, comparing siblings is equivalent to comparing exchangeable individuals, which is the foundation for causal inference based on randomized controlled trials (RCTs). However, this intuition-and the publication of highly important sibling studies-vastly predate modern causal inference theory. Full causal descriptions of sibling comparison designs are essentially nonexistent, and therefore it is not clear exactly how or if we can interpret their estimated effects as causal. We fill this theoretical gap by proposing a counterfactual-based framework for sibling comparison designs. Moreover, we employ this framework to derive precise causal interpretations for three commonly used sibling model estimators stemming from fixed-effects ordinary least squares (OLS), conditional logistic regression, and stratified Cox regression. We establish that, for the latter two, the obtained effect parameter describes a causal effect on the full sibling group, not the individuals, and thus it does not correspond to the prevailing intuition from the RCT analogue. For fixed-effects OLS estimation, the parameter describes a causal effect on an individual, but may depend on an intervention on the whole sibling group. OLS estimation thus results in an estimator that can be given a simple causal interpretation that is similar, but not equal to, the RCT parallel. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B618.

Detecting the administration of naturally occurring but synthetically derived steroids (e.g., testosterone) in routine doping controls is particularly laborious and time-consuming. Carbon isotope signatures determined by isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS) have been established as the method of choice to generate confirmatory evidence in case of suspicious or atypical findings in steroid profile analyses; however, IRMS measurements require sophisticated sample preparation methods employing up to two high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) purification steps. Here, an alternative sample preparation approach is presented. Immunoaffinity chromatography (IAC) was employed to reduce the batch analysis time by omitting the time-consuming HPLC purification steps, while pre- and post-IAC sample handling followed published protocols. IAC exploits specific antibody-immunogen interactions, and the option of combining three immunoaffinity gels containing specific antibodies for testosterone, pregnanediol, and 11-ketoetiocholanolone into a multi-immunoaffinity sample preparation approach was assessed. Due to cross reactivities, also etiocholanolone, androsterone, 5β-androstanediol, and 5α-androstanediol were co-extracted and included in the testing protocol. The method was validated by determining precision, recovery, and carry over, and performing linear mixing models. IAC was found to be applicable to the determination of carbon isotope ratios in doping controls and the approach allowed for an accelerated sample preparation. Graphical abstract.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Schizophrenia is a severe and highly stigmatized mental illness. High internalized stigma affects FGs' quality of life and caregiving capacity. Worldwide studies aimed at internalized stigma among patients diagnosed with mental illness or their FGs have reported significant stigma and some correlates, but studies involving FGs that focus on a specific mental illness (e.g. schizophrenia) and report the impact of potential psychosocial variables (e.g. coping and hope) on internalized stigma are limited. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Internalized stigma was common among Chinese FGs of patients diagnosed with schizophrenia and half of them presented at a mild level. Internalized stigma was negatively associated with hope and positively associated with passive coping. FGs, who live with patients, have difficulty supervising medication, or care for a male relative has higher internalized stigma. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Regarding informative support, interventions (e.g. enhancing mental health literacy programs and cognitive therapies) to provide knowledge about schizophrenia, the skills to manage patients' adherence to medications, the benefits of treatment and the possibilities of rehabilitation are necessary for FGs. Regarding psychosocial processes, effective interventions (e.g. group psychoeducation and group social skills training) aimed to enhance hope, social support and coping styles towards internalized stigma should be implemented among FGs. Both informative support and psychosocial interventions used to decrease FGs' internalized stigma can be delivered by healthcare providers or by peer caregivers. ABSTRACT: Introduction Internalized stigma is prevalent among patients diagnosed with schizophrenia. Their family caregivers (FGs) also suffer from internalized stigma, but limited studies have addressed the issue. Aim The aim of this study was to determine the severity of internalized stigma and its correlates among FGs of patients diagnosed with schizophrenia in Changsha, Hunan, China. Methods A consecutive sample of 299 FGs was recruited at the psychiatric outpatient department of a tertiary hospital in Changsha. This study explored the relationships between internalized stigma and potential factors. Results Nearly 50% of the FGs perceived mild internalized stigma, 24% of the FGs reported moderate level, and 6% had a severe level. Internalized stigma was associated with patients' characteristics (severity of illness) and FGs' characteristics (hope, social support, passive coping, age, education background, residence with the patient, caring for a male or a young patient and difficulty in supervising medication). Discussion and implications for practice Informative and psychosocial interventions based on education and contact for FGs such as enhancing mental health literacy programs, cognitive therapies and group psychoeducation can provide FGs with a better understanding of schizophrenia and to promote hope, active coping and social support.

The aim of this integrative review is to synthesize quantitative and qualitative research evidence on challenges in caring for a child with a disability among immigrant parents and to understand their coping strategies and resiliency factors associated with their coping. A comprehensive literature search was conducted to identify relevant studies from the following databases: MEDLINE, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Scopus, PsycINFO, Social work abstract, Cochrane library, and EMBASE. This review included 25 studies: 1 quantitative, 23 qualitative, and 1 narrative review. The main challenges that parents faced were language barriers, financial hardships, service utilization challenges, poor adaptation to new culture, stigma related to mental illness, discrimination, and social isolation. This review found poor communication and lack of cultural awareness among some healthcare professionals. Immigrant parents used problem-focused coping, avoidance coping, spiritual coping, and social support to manage their challenges. Parents who received social, emotional, and instrumental support were more resilient. Personality traits and faith were protective factors that enhanced resilience. When immigration and disability are considered concurrently, the burden of care multiplies. Immigrant parents with children who have disabilities faced extra challenges related to adaptation, finance, service utilization, and stigma. Healthcare providers can play an important role in aiding these parents in service utilization and adaptation. This review adds new knowledge on immigrant parents' challenges in caring for their children with disabilities. Such knowledge could help health professionals to develop supportive interventions to enhance parental coping and resilience. Culturally appropriate and sensitive communication and care provided by healthcare providers can facilitate service utilization and reduce perceived stigma. Special training provided to healthcare providers regarding the challenges of these families may enhance awareness. Information support and parental support groups may help to enhance parental coping and reduce isolation. An interpreting service should be provided in all aspects of care.

People use space to conceptualize abstract domains like time and number. This tendency may be a cognitive universal, but the specifics of people's implicit space-time and space-number associations vary across cultures. In Western cultures, both time and numbers are arranged in people's minds along an imaginary horizontal line, from left to right, but in other cultures the directions of the mental timeline (MTL) and mental number line (MNL) are reversed. How does culture shape our abstract concepts? Using time and number as a testbed, we propose and test a general principle, which we call the CORrelations in Experience (CORE) principle, according to which different aspects of experience should selectively affect different abstract concepts. Across 3 training experiments, the MTL was shaped by experiences that provide a correlation between space and time, whereas the MNL was shaped by experiences that provide a correlation between space and number. These findings reveal that the MTL and MNL have distinct experiential bases, supporting the CORE principle and challenging the widespread claim that both mappings are determined by a common set of cultural experiences (e.g., reading, writing, visual scanning). The CORE principle provides an account of how domains like time and number, universal fixtures of the natural world, can be conceptualized in culture-specific ways: People spatialize abstract domains in their minds according to the ways those domains are spatialized in their experience. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

Hypericum (Hypericaceae) is a genus that comprises approximately 500 species around the world. The industrial relevance of these plants is based on the occurence of specialized metabolites that exhibit a range of pharmaceutical potential. Besides that, several species are relevant due to their ornamental value. Taking to account the vast market worth of products and processes involving Hypericum, the present study aims to provide a comprehensive overview of patents concerning this subject between 2007and 2017. For this purpose, a survey was performed in free databases (Espacenet®, PatentScope® and Google Patents®) using the keyword Hypericum in the patents title or title plus abstract. The documents were then organized by groups (medicinal and non-medicinal approaches), subgroups, type of applicants and countries. Espacenet® was chosen to data analysis, and a total of 174 patents were found. The majority of the applicants are from China and companies appear as the principal owners of patents. Several technologies are not intended for medicinal purposes, being mainly related to the development of new cultivars for ornamental uses. Concerning the medicinal approaches, the chief subject is related to extraction and incorporation into formulations. The main species cited in the documents is H. perforatum and the therapeutic use is for central nervous system diseases. In general, this study covers the patents published in recent years hoping to boost the scientists and companies that invest in Hypericum researches to visualize the state of art, opportunities and challenges for innovation in this area.

A low protein diet had minimal effects on paternal cardiovascular function or renin-angiotensin system activity. Paternal low protein diet modified F1 neonatal and adult offspring renin-angiotensin system activity and cardiovascular function in a sperm and/or seminal plasma specific manner. Paternal low protein diet modified F1 male offspring testicular expression of central epigenetic regulators. Significant changes in F2 neonatal offspring growth and tissue angiotensin-converting enzyme activity were programmed by paternal low protein diet in a sperm and/or seminal plasma specific manner. Although the impact of maternal diet on adult offspring health is well characterized, the role that a father's diet has on his offspring's health remains poorly defined. We establish the significance of a sup-optimal paternal low protein diet for offspring vascular homeostasis and define the sperm and seminal plasma specific programming effects on cardiovascular health. Male C57BL6 mice were fed either a control normal protein diet (NPD; 18% protein) or an isocaloric low protein diet (LPD; 9% protein) for a minimum of 7 weeks. Using artificial insemination, in combination with vasectomized male mating, we generated offspring derived from either NPD or LPD sperm (devoid of seminal plasma) but in the presence of NPD or LPD seminal plasma (devoid of sperm). We observed that either LPD sperm or seminal fluid at conception impaired adult offspring vascular function in response to both vasoconstrictors and dilators. Underlying these changes in vascular function were significant changes in serum, lung and kidney angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity, established in F1 offspring from 3 weeks of age, maintained into adulthood and present also within juvenile F2 offspring. Furthermore, we observed differential expression of multiple central renin-angiotensin system regulators in adult offspring kidneys. Finally, paternal diet modified the expression profiles of central epigenetic regulators of DNA methylation, histone modifications and RNA methylation in adult F1 male testes. These novel data reveal the impact of sub-optimal paternal nutrition on offspring cardiovascular well-being, programming offspring cardiovascular function through both sperm and seminal plasma specific mechanisms over successive generations.

Quality of life is a multidimensional, sophisticated, comprehensive and abstract concept that reflects life conditions, health and social welfare status, perception of life and psychology of individuals. It is affected by health problem and disease existence as well as individual, demographic, economic and social characteristics such as gender, education, marital status and income level. The objective of this study is to determine the more likely predictors of the quality of life in Turkey. 2016 Turkey Health Survey that is a large and nationally representative survey was used to reach study objective. The results indicated that individual and demographic characteristic as well as self-rated health status and disease existence were the main predictors of quality of life. Based on the findings, it can be recommended that appropriate interventions might improve quality of life which is tend to be lower among aged, female, less educated and widow/separated individuals. It is also recommended in improving health status of individuals and improving accessibility, and quality of the health services for people with a disease will increase the quality of life of individuals.

There is a paucity of evidence to guide the diagnostic evaluation of emergency department (ED) patients presenting after nonfatal strangulation (manual strangulation or near hanging). We seek to define the rate of serious injuries in alert strangled patients and determine which symptoms and examination findings, if any, predict such injuries. Using prospectively populated databases and electronic medical record review, we performed a retrospective analysis of alert strangled patients treated in the ED of an academic Level I trauma center. Exclusions were Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score less than 13, younger than 16 years, and interhospital transfers. Trained researchers used structured forms to abstract demographics, symptoms, examination findings, radiology and operative findings, and final diagnoses. Injuries requiring greater than 24 hours' observation or specific treatment (surgery, procedure, specific medication) were considered clinically important. The electronic medical record was searched for 30 days after presentation to identify missed injuries. Advanced imaging (computed tomography or magnetic resonance maging) was obtained in 60%. Injuries were identified in 6 patients (1.7%, 95% CI, 0.7% to 3.6%). Two injuries were clinically important (0.6%, 95% CI, 0.1% to 2.0%). Both were cervical artery dissections with no neurologic deficits, treated with aspirin. No additional injuries were identified within 30 days or at next medical contact. Of 343 uninjured patients, 291 (85%) had documented medical follow up confirming the absence of any new diagnosis of injury or stroke. The small number of injuries precluded analyses of associations. Alert, strangled patients had a low rate of injuries. All patients with neck injuries had concerning findings besides neck pain; specifically, GCS score less than 15 or dysphagia. Our findings suggest, but do not prove, that a selective imaging strategy is safe in alert patients after strangulation findings besides neck pain.

No abstract available.

The importance of communication between physicians and patients 

Knockout Drugs: Diagnostics in the Emergency Unit and Clinical Practice 

No abstract available.

To explore best practices for increasing cultural competency and reducing health disparities, the authors conducted a scoping review of the existing literature. The review was guided by 2 questions: (1) Are health care professionals and medical students learning about implicit bias, health disparities, advocacy, and the needs of diverse patient populations? (2) What educational strategies are being used to increase student and educator cultural competency? In August 2016 and July 2018, the authors searched 10 databases (including Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, and Scopus) and MedEdPORTAL, respectively, using keywords related to multiple health professions and cultural competency or diversity and inclusion education and training. Publications from 2005 to August 2016 were included. Results were screened using a 2-phase process (title and abstract review followed by full-text review) to determine if articles met the inclusion or exclusion criteria. The search identified 89 articles that specifically related to cultural competency or diversity and inclusion education and training within health care. Interventions ranged from single-day workshops to a 10-year curriculum. Eleven educational strategies used to teach cultural competency and about health disparities were identified. Many studies recommended using multiple educational strategies to develop knowledge, awareness, attitudes, and skills. Less than half of the studies reported favorable outcomes. Multiple studies highlighted the difficulty of implementing curricula without trained and knowledgeable faculty. For the field to progress in supporting a culturally diverse patient population, comprehensive training of trainers, longitudinal evaluations of interventions, and the identification and establishment of best practices will be imperative.

The field of health policy and systems research (HPSR) has grown rapidly in the past decade. Examining recently aggregated data from the Global Symposia on Health Systems Research, a key global fora for HPSR convened by the largest international society-Health Systems Global (HSG)-provides opportunities to enhance existing research on HPSR capacity using novel analytical techniques. This addresses the demand not only to map the field but also to examine potential predictors of acceptance to, and participation at, these global conferences to inform future work and strategies in promoting HPSR. We examined data from the abstracts submitted for two Global Symposia on Health Systems Research in 2016 and 2018 by type of institution, countries, regional groupings and gender. After mapping hotspot areas for HPSR production, we then examined how the corresponding author's characteristics were associated with being accepted to present at the Global Symposia. Our findings showed that submissions for the Global Symposia increased by 12% from 2016 to 2018. Submissions increased across all participant groups, in particular, the for-profit organizations and research/consultancy firms showing the highest increases, at 58% for both. We also found reduced submissions from high-income countries, whereas submissions from low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America, increased substantially revealing the inclusivity values of Symposium organizers. Submissions increased to a larger extent among women than men. Being a woman, coming from a high-income country and having multiple abstracts submitted were found to be significant predictors for an abstract to be accepted and presented in the Symposia. Findings provide critical baseline information on the extent of interest and engagement in a global forum of various institutions and researchers in HPSR that can be useful for setting future directions of HSG and other similar organizations to support the advancement of HPSR worldwide.

Adults with cancer frequently report symptoms such as decline in cognitive function throughout the trajectory of illness. Patients with cognitive deficits need support and assistance from their informal caregivers and often rely on them to manage their symptoms based on their degree of deficits. Patients spend a significant amount of time with their informal caregivers and become interdependent with each other. In spite of their interdependence, it is unclear whether patients' cognitive outcomes (ie, cognitive function) are associated with their informal caregivers. Therefore, the body of literature related to the association between caregiver characteristics and cognitive function of adults with cancer needs to be fully mapped with assessment for knowledge gaps. Methods for this scoping review was informed by the framework proposed by Arksey and O'Malley. Seven electronic databases will be searched: (1) PubMed (MEDLINE), (2) CINAHL, (3) Embase, (4) PsycINFO, (5) Scopus, (6) Sociological Abstracts and (7) ProQuest dissertation abstracts. In addition, the search for grey literature will include the conference abstracts available through Embase, Scopus and Sociological abstracts as well as dissertations available in ProQuest dissertations. All retrieved citations will be independently screened by two authors and eligibility will be determined based on inclusion and exclusion criteria at title and abstract level. Studies meeting inclusion criteria, will be screened at full text level by two reviewers followed by abstraction of included studies. Eligible studies will be collated, summarised and reported using the data charting form that research team developed. This scoping review does not require ethics approval. Results of this scoping review will be disseminated via conference presentation and/or publication in a scientific journal.

The tobacco industry works to block, delay, and weaken national tobacco control legislation to implement the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). This article reviews how Nepal overcame industry opposition and to a comprehensive tobacco control law implementing the FCTC. We triangulated newspaper articles and policy documents with key informant interviews. With the support of international health groups, local tobacco control advocates worked with policymakers in Nepal to pass a comprehensive tobacco control law that exceeded FCTC obligations. The tobacco industry exploited a time of political transition to block consideration by Parliament, arranged and sponsored foreign tours for legislators, made death threats to tobacco control advocates and their families, and argued for the economic importance of tobacco farms. Despite strong interference from Health, and Law and Justice ministers, a 2009 Supreme Court ruling helped tobacco control advocates secure a comprehensive tobacco control law in 2011 that included rotating pictorial health warning labels covering 75% of both sides of cigarette packages, 100% smoke free public places and workplaces, private homes and vehicles, and a tobacco advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ban. Advocates in developing countries should utilize Nepal's experience to reject tobacco industry offers of compromise and continue educating politicians and legislators to generate political support to pass a comprehensive tobacco control law. Technical and financial support from international agencies, and effective collaboration and coordination of civil societies, and utilization of domestic litigation are helpful in LMICs where governance is weak (the abstract in Nepali is available as a Supplementary Material). The tobacco industry exploited a time of political transition in Nepal in its effort to block comprehensive tobacco control policy in Parliament by sponsoring foreign tours of legislatures, making death threats to tobacco control advocates and their families, and arguing for the economic importance of tobacco farms. Tobacco control advocates used litigation to raise awareness and educate legislators and promote strong legislation with the involvement of international health groups. Technical and financial support from international agencies, and effective collaboration and coordination of civil societies, and utilization of domestic litigation are helpful in LMICs where governance is weak.

The aim of this review is to provide a summary of the literature on risk-sharing agreements, including conceptual, theoretical and empirical (number of agreements and their achievements) perspectives, and stakeholders'  perceptions. We conducted a systematic literature search in MEDLINE from 2000 to April 2019, following PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) methodology, and completed it with a manual search of other publications (mainly grey literature). The search was restricted to publications with English abstracts; the initial identification of articles was restricted to the title, abstract and key words fields. The geographical scope was not restricted. Over 20 studies proposed different taxonomies of risk-sharing contracts, which can be summarised as financial and paying-for-performance agreements. Theoretical studies modelling the incentives to implement risk-sharing agreements are scarce; they addressed different types of contracts and regulatory contexts, characterizing the drug prices and the optimal strategies of the involved agents. Empirical studies describing specific agreements are abundant and referred to different geographical contexts; however, few articles showed the economic results and assessed the value of such contracts. Stakeholders' perceptions of risk-sharing contracting were favourable, but little is known about the economic and clinical advantages of specific agreements. Whether risk-sharing contracts have yielded the desired results for healthcare systems remains uncertain. Risk-sharing contracts are increasingly used, although the lack of transparency and aggregated registries makes it difficult to learn from these experiences and assess their impact on healthcare systems.

This paper focuses on the affective economies which materialize around race, sexuality and queerness in the British context to enable the production and mobilization of an exceptionalist discourse of gay-friendly and post-homophobic Britain (i.e., pinkwashing). The author investigates the discursive workings of pinkwashing coupled with the racialization of homophobia, through a critical reading of the BBC Two documentary 

[No Abstract Available].

Patients with epilepsy have a greatly increased risk of osteoporosis and fractures. The literature is diverse and contradictory when dealing with the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Consequently, the purpose of this review was to shed light on the multifactorial causes behind the increased occurrence of metabolic bone disease in patients with epilepsy and to identify areas for future research. A review of the literature was performed searching PubMed with relevant Medical Subject Headings MeSH terms. The results of the search were evaluated for relevance to the review based on the title and abstract of the publication. Publications in language other than English and publications pertaining only pediatric patients were excluded. For all studies, included reference lists were evaluated for further relevant publications. In total, 96 publications were included in this explorative review. The high occurrence of metabolic bone disease in patients with epilepsy is multifactorial. The causes are the socioeconomic consequences of having a chronic neurological disease but also adverse effects to antiepileptic drug treatment ranging from interference with calcium and vitamin D metabolism to hyponatremia-induced osteoporosis. The literature supports the need for awareness of bone health in patients with epilepsy. The pathophysiological mechanisms are many and various wanting for further research in the less well-characterized areas. Furthermore, great responsibility rests on the healthcare professionals in implementing comprehensive patient care and in assuring bone protective measures in clinical practice to prevent bone loss in patients with epilepsy.

The profound appreciation of urban expansion and land use change (LUC) considerably influences the ecosystem functions, services, and biodiversity along with the local and regional climate. Land use has undergone an awful transformation due to rapid urbanization and population growth, which in turn increased land surface temperature (LST) in district Peshawar, Pakistan. The current study tends to capture the influence of land use on LST and agricultural productivity by employing multi-temporal, multispectral satellite data and agricultural production data during the selected years, i.e., 1996, 2003, and 2016. The results demonstrated that barren land considerably decreased while the urban area increased over time in all three phases. Furthermore, significant LST difference was found in different land cover units; e.g., barren land and urban area have the maximum, while water bodies followed by vegetation retain minimum LST in all three phases, i.e., 1996, 2003, and 2016. Similarly, the results from agricultural production revealed that except for wheat crops, which decreased by 7.54% during 1999-2003, the production of all major food crops increased during the selected years. However, the production of sugar cane and barley experienced considerable reduction during the selected years, except for barley, which increased by 22.86% during 2003-2016. The finding of this study provides guidance, policy recommendations, and reference for future researchers. Graphical abstract .

The increase in packaged food and beverage portion sizes has been identified as a potential factor implicated in the rise of the prevalence of obesity. In this context, the objective of this systematic scoping review was to investigate how healthy adults perceive and interpret serving size information on food packages and how this influences product perception and consumption. Such knowledge is needed to improve food labelling understanding and guide consumers toward healthier portion size choices. A search of seven databases (2010 to April 2019) provided the records for title and abstract screening, with relevant articles assessed for eligibility in the full-text. Fourteen articles met the inclusion criteria, with relevant data extracted by one reviewer and checked for consistency by a second reviewer. Twelve studies were conducted in North America, where the government regulates serving size information. Several studies reported a poor understanding of serving size labelling. Indeed, consumers interpreted the labelled serving size as a recommended serving for dietary guidelines for healthy eating rather than a typical consumption unit, which is set by the manufacturer or regulated in some countries such as in the U.S. and Canada. Not all studies assessed consumption; however, larger labelled serving sizes resulted in larger self-selected portion sizes in three studies. However, another study performed on confectionary reported the opposite effect, with larger labelled serving sizes leading to reduced consumption. The limited number of included studies showed that labelled serving size affects portion size selection and consumption, and that any labelled serving size format changes may result in increased portion size selection, energy intake and thus contribute to the rise of the prevalence of overweight and obesity. Research to test cross-continentally labelled serving size format changes within experimental and natural settings (e.g., at home) are needed. In addition, tailored, comprehensive and serving-size-specific food literacy initiatives need to be evaluated to provide recommendations for effective serving size labelling. This is required to ensure the correct understanding of nutritional content, as well as informing food choices and consumption, for both core foods and discretionary foods.

Children encounter moral norms in several different social contexts. Often it is in hierarchically structured interactions with parents or other adults, but sometimes it is in more symmetrically structured interactions with peers. Our question was whether children's discussions of moral norms differ in these two contexts. Consequently, we had 4- and 6-year-old children (

The allocation of healthcare resources takes place at two distinct levels. At the macroeconomic level, policymakers decide on budgets, staffing, cost-effectiveness thresholds, clinical guidelines and insurance payments; at the microeconomic level, healthcare professionals decide on whom to treat, what the appropriate treatment is, how much time and effort should each patient receive and how urgent the need for care is. At both levels, there is a constant social need for just allocation. Policymakers are mostly guided by abstract principles of justice, thinking in terms of groups of patients, epidemiological data, impersonal statistics and economic costs. On the other hand, healthcare professionals understand the need for justice at a more personal level, as they interact with patients and, in a sense, put theory into practice. Nurses hold a unique position in healthcare systems, as, traditionally, they are closer to patients than other health professionals. This means that they have a firsthand view of the effect that their decisions have on specific patients and, therefore, nurses tend to get more influenced by their personal feelings, values and beliefs at the microeconomic level. This presentation shall examine the gap between abstract macroeconomic and concrete microeconomic health resources allocation decisions, with a particular emphasis on the role of the nurse.

The concept of equality is subject to many different interpretations, and it is closely connected to similar concepts such as equity, justice, fairness, and human rights. As an ideal, equality entails many aspects that are untenable. For instance, genetic and social inequalities may never be extinct, but they can both be ameliorated by proper distribution of society's resources. Likewise, within the context of health care, equality can be promoted by proper rationing of health resources, amongst which nursing care stands out. In the field of nursing, the principle of equality presents itself in various forms of ethical and deontological mandates. However, beyond good intentions and abstract notions, there is a need to examine the ways in which nurses enforce this principle in practice, within the reality of modern health systems. Although there is scarcity of qualitative evidence in the nursing care rationing literature, existing studies suggest that fair treatment pertains to a largely intuitive sense of equality which involves subjective perceptions and judgements about rationing. Nurses' initial predisposition is to view all patients as equal and treat them in an equal manner; yet, on an individual basis, each patient has a different starting point, different needs and different prospects that render rationing decisions complex and uncertain. Equality should be accepted with its unavoidable limitations in practice and be further examined within the context of nursing care rationing, in the hope that it can be advanced in a consistent way, despite the idealistic nature in many of its aspects.

Child physical abuse is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in young children. Identification of abused children is challenging, and can affect risk-adjusted benchmarking of trauma center performance. The purpose of this project was to understand diagnosis coding capture rates for child abuse and develop a standardized approach to clinician documentation to improve trauma registry capture. A retrospective cohort was obtained including all admitted trauma patients with injuries from known or suspected abusive mechanism in 2017. Patients who received forensic workup for child physical abuse were classified as "no abuse," "suspected abuse," and "confirmed abuse" using narratives from social work notes. Our trauma registry was used to abstract International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10) diagnostic and external cause codes for each patient. Abuse classifications defined by chart review were then compared with coding in the registry using crosstabs. A total of 115 patients were identified as having a forensic workup for child physical abuse. Patients who underwent forensic workup were classified as: 40% no abuse, 37% suspected abuse, and 23% confirmed abuse at the time of discharge. Three patients (6%) with a negative forensic workup were overcoded as suspected abuse in our trauma registry. Among patients with clinically confirmed abuse, our trauma registry identified only 63% by diagnostic codes and only 33% by external cause codes. Child physical abuse is frequently undercoded, and clear clinical documentation of the level of suspicion of abuse at discharge is needed to accurately identify abused patients.

Gaze following plays a role in parent-infant communication and is a key mechanism by which infants acquire information about the world from social input. Gaze following in Deaf infants has been understudied. Twelve Deaf infants of Deaf parents (DoD) who had native exposure to American Sign Language (ASL) were gender-matched and age-matched (±7 days) to 60 spoken-language hearing control infants. Results showed that the DoD infants had significantly higher gaze-following scores than the hearing infants. We hypothesize that in the absence of auditory input, and with support from ASL-fluent Deaf parents, infants become attuned to visual-communicative signals from other people, which engenders increased gaze following. These findings underscore the need to revise the 'deficit model' of deafness. Deaf infants immersed in natural sign language from birth are better at understanding the signals and identifying the referential meaning of adults' gaze behavior compared to hearing infants not exposed to sign language. Broader implications for theories of social-cognitive development are discussed. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/QXCDK_CUmAI.

Climate change is a global challenge faced by everyone, but the developing countries are highly vulnerable to variations in the environment. This research focuses on the Punjab province of Pakistan and evaluates the impacts and consequences of climate change on general public at local and divisional level. In order to cope with the impacts of climatic changes at all levels, especially divisional level, raising reliable awareness and dispersing actionable knowledge regarding mitigating and adapting measures is significantly important. Therefore, recognition of information gaps, improvements in the level of alertness, and development of preventive measures in each sector is imperative. The impacts of climate change are observed across the country through gradual increase in temperature, human health issues, pest diseases, droughts, floods, and irregular weather patterns leading to changes in lifestyles, and these issues are likely to continue in the future. The main cause of climate change in Punjab, Pakistan, can be attributed to excessive release of greenhouse gases (GHG) into the atmosphere due to human activities involving inefficient energy usage, rapid urban expansion, improper waste management, industrial development, increasing transportation, agricultural activities, and livestock mismanagement. The findings of this study revealed that transportation sector is the major source of GHG emissions in the country, followed by industrialization and waste, at national, as well as divisional, level. The extent of impacts of climate change at divisional level is distinguishable and displayed a direct relationship with climate, geography, variation of effects, and modes of production in various regions of Punjab. The study strategically investigated all nine divisions of the province for comprehensive understanding of climate change phenomenon, and the results indicated that nearly three-fourths of the respondents have never indulged in taking steps towards climate change mitigation and adaptation. The study adopted a mixed (qualitative and quantitative) approach where the findings can act as set of guidelines for governmental authorities in formulating, assisting in preparation, instructing, and guiding policies for climate change mitigation and adaptation at national, local, and divisional levels. Graphical abstract.

Gender disparities in scientific publications have been identified in oncological research. Oral research presentations at major conferences enhance visibility of presenters. The share of women presenting at such podia is unknown. We aim to identify gender-based differences in contributions to presentations at two major oncological conferences. Abstracts presented at plenary sessions of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meetings and European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Congresses were collected. Trend analyses were used to analyze female contribution over time. The association between presenter's sex, study outcome (positive/negative) and journals' impact factors (IFs) of subsequently published papers was assessed using Chi-square and Mann-Whitney U tests. Of 166 consecutive abstracts presented at ASCO in 2011-2018 (n = 34) and ESMO in 2008-2018 (n = 132), 21% had female presenters, all originating from Northern America (n = 17) or Europe (n = 18). The distribution of presenter's sex was similar over time (p = 0.70). Of 2,425 contributing authors to these presented abstracts, 28% were women. The proportion of female abstract authors increased over time (p < 0.05) and was higher in abstracts with female (34%) compared to male presenters (26%; p < 0.01). Presenter's sex was not associated with study outcome (p = 0.82). Median journals' IFs were lower in papers with a female first author (p < 0.05). In conclusion, there is a clear gender disparity in research presentations at two major oncological conferences, with 28% of authors and 21% of presenters of these studies being female. Lack of visibility of female presenters could impair acknowledgement for their research, opportunities in their academic career and even hamper heterogeneity in research.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: People with dementia experience cognitive decline which can affect their ability to communicate with others and consequently getting their needs met. Loneliness and social isolation are associated with depression and anxiety, while difficulties communicating may magnify such difficulties. Enhancing meaningful interactions may support maintenance of valued relationships and positive wellbeing. Although previous research has examined communicative experiences, this has been from the perspectives of professionals or caregivers. Exploring meaningful communication from the perspectives of people with dementia is crucial in supporting relationships and wellbeing. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: People with dementia can be active participants in research. They are aware of their cognitive impairments as well as social interactions and features constituting meaningful communications. People with dementia recognized carers' attempts to understand and empathize with them; allowing them to feel valued and heard, empowering them to maintain interactions. Alternatively, feeling dismissed, inferior or pressured to provide 'correct' responses deterred them from further conversations. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: People with dementia have an awareness of their relationships, communications and preferences. Thus, it is imperative to respect this population and make attempts to understand their communication as they sense this effort even when miscommunications occur. Embrace qualities that facilitate person-centred care within communications is vital as this can preserve valued relationships, support one's needs and enhance wellbeing. Such features include active listening, empathizing, being physically and mentally present, spending time to know the individual and sharing experiences, thoughts and emotions. Abstract Introduction Social isolation can be problematic for people with dementia; understanding what makes communication meaningful may reduce such risk. Scientific rationale Previous research has examined caregivers' or professionals' experiences of meaningful communication. Understanding this from the perspectives of people with dementia could enhance their interactions and wellbeing. Aim Exploring what makes communication meaningful from the perspective of people with dementia. Methods Nine dyadic interactions between a person with dementia and a family carer were filmed. Individuals with dementia watched the footage and reflected on their communications in semi-structured interviews. Results Three superordinate themes emerged. Themes 'sharing moments of emotional connection' and 'empowering one's ability to communicate' related to the experience of feeling connected, understood, valued and heard, allowing further communication. Conversely, 'inhibitors to communication' related feeling disempowered and reduced interactions. Discussion Even when carers could not understand what people with dementia attempted to communicate, their efforts to interact with them were valued and considered meaningful as they reinforce their sense of connectedness. Implications for practice Embracing a person-centred approach by actively attuning to the person and continuously attempting to empathize and understand persons with dementia can help preserve important relationships and allow the person to feel valued and interpersonally connected.

Rejection of closed placement in youth welfare: Two case reports and a discussion of needs and effectiveness 

If someone unintentionally breaks the rules, do they break the rules? In the abstract, the answer is obviously "yes." But, surprisingly, when considering specific examples of unintentional, blameless rule-breaking, approximately half of people judge that no rule was broken. This effect, known as excuse validation, has previously been observed in American adults. Outstanding questions concern what causes excuse validation, and whether it is peculiar to American moral psychology or cross-culturally robust. The present paper studies the phenomenon cross-culturally, focusing on Korean and American adults, and proposes a new explanation of why people engage in excuse validation, in terms of competing forces in human norm-psychology. The principal findings are that Americans and Koreans engaged in excuse validation at similar levels, and older adults were more likely to engage in excuse validation. OPEN RESEARCH BADGES: This article has been awarded Open Materials and Open Data badges. All materials and data are publicly accessible via the Open Science Framework at https://osf.io/8juyc/. Learn more about the Open Practices badges from the Center for Open Science: https://osf.io/tvyxz/wiki .

Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is characterized by intermittent hypoxia, which causes oxidative stress and inflammation and increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. OSA during pregnancy causes adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. The effects of pre-existing OSA in pregnant women on cardiometabolic outcomes in the offspring are unknown. We evaluated basic metabolic parameters, as well as aortic vascular and perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) function in response to adiponectin, and examined DNA methylation of adiponectin gene promoter in PVAT in 16-week-old adult offspring exposed to gestational intermittent hypoxia (GIH). GIH decreased body weights at week 1 in both male and female offspring, and caused subsequent increases in body weight and food consumption in male offspring only. Adult female offspring had normal levels of lipids, glucose and insulin, with no endothelial dysfunction. Adult male offspring exhibited dyslipidaemia, insulin resistance and hyperleptinaemia. Decreased endothelial-dependent vasodilatation, loss of anti-contractile activity of PVAT and low circulating PVAT adiponectin levels, as well as increased pro-inflammatory gene expression and DNA methylation of adiponectin gene promoter, occurred in adult male offspring. Our results suggest that male offspring of women with OSA could be at risk of developing cardiometabolic disease during adulthood. Perturbations during pregnancy can program the offspring to develop cardiometabolic diseases later in life. Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a chronic condition that frequently affects pregnancies and leads to adverse fetal outcomes. We assessed the offspring of female mice experiencing gestational intermittent hypoxia (GIH), a hallmark of OSA, for changes in metabolic profiles, aortic nitric oxide (NO)-dependent relaxations, perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) anti-contractile activities and the responses to adiponectin, and DNA methylation of the adiponectin gene promoter in PVAT tissue. Pregnant mouse dams were exposed to intermittent hypoxic cycles ( 

Post-approval changes are inevitable and necessary throughout the life of a drug product-to implement new knowledge, maintain a state of control, and drive continual improvement. Many of these post-approval changes require regulatory agency approval by individual countries before implementation. Because of the global regulatory complexity, individual post-approval changes usually take years for full worldwide approval even when they reduce patient risk, improve compliance, or enhance the manufacturing process or test methods. This global complexity slows down continual improvement and innovation and can cause drug shortages and current good manufacturing practices compliance issues. Manufacturers that market products globally experience the greatest challenge and risks in their daily operations because of this post-approval change complexity. A global problem needs a global solution. Quality leaders speaking globally with "One Voice of Quality" are essential for solving this difficult problem. This concept paper has been developed under the sponsorship of a group of Chief Quality Officers (Heads of Quality) from >25 global pharmaceutical companies and has been endorsed by the Parenteral Drug Association. The intent of this concept paper is to develop and implement aligned, standard solutions within the industry, leveraging the core foundation of the pharmaceutical quality system, such that a transformational shift can be achieved with faster implementation of new knowledge, continual improvement, and innovation through post-approval changes.

Authoritarianism becomes respectable in Germany: A risk factor for condoning physical violence toward children? 

To assess the two most toxicologically relevant species of As, namely arsenite (As(III)) and arsenate (As(V)), chromatographic separations often require two separate chromatographic columns to address the co-elution of arsenobetaine (AsB) with As(III). This issue is typically observed using conventional isocratic methods on anion exchange columns, increasing cost and analysis time. Here, we optimize the extraction of inorganic As from a lichen air biomonitor and develop an isocratic method for the chromatographic separation of five common As species on a PRP X-100 anion exchange column, resulting in the complete baseline separation of all species under study. This method was then applied to lichen biomonitors from an urban and rural site to demonstrate its use. In order of abundance, the various arsenic species in lichens from the urban site in South Africa were As(V) > As(III) > AsB > dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) > monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and As(V) > AsB > As(III) > DMA > MMA for the rural site, where MMA was present in extremely low, non-quantifiable concentrations in lichens from both sites. Total concentrations of As were higher in samples from the urban site (6.43 ± 0.25 μg/g) than in those from the rural site (1.87 ± 0.05 μg/g), with an overall extraction efficiency of 19% and 40%, respectively. The optimized method utilized relatively inexpensive solvents and is therefore low-cost and eco-friendly in comparison with conventional chromatographic techniques. This is the first study which addresses the optimized extraction and characterization of As species in a South African lichen biomonitor of air pollution. Graphical abstract .

Being terminally ill affects not only the life of patients but also that of their loved ones. Dyads of adult children and their parents at the end of life may face specific challenges with regard to their relationship and interactions that need to be further examined. The aim was to identify, describe and summarise available evidence on adult child-parent interaction and psychosocial support needs at the end of life. Research gaps in the existing literature are disclosed and recommendations for future research are presented. A type 4 scoping review according to Arksey and O'Malley's (2005) methodological framework was conducted. The review includes studies regardless of study design and provides a descriptive account of foci of available research. The PubMed, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Google Scholar and Web of Science databases were searched from inception to 16 August 2018. An additional hand search was conducted. A highly sensitive search strategy was employed to cover all potentially relevant results. The authors screened 1832 records by title and abstract, retrieved 216 full-text articles and included 15 studies from the database search. One study was identified by way of hand search. The review identified six major themes: (1) adult child-parent relationship, (2) adult child-parent communication, (3) involvement in caregiving, (4) benefit and burden of caregiving, (5) coping strategies and (6) support and information for caregivers. The scoping review accentuates the paucity of studies that address both patients' and their parent/adult child caregivers' relationship, interaction and psychosocial support needs.

Agriculture is considered as the backbone of the economy of Pakistan. However, current changes in climate have been adversely affecting agricultural productivity. In this paper, perceived impacts of climate change on agriculture and adaptation towards it have been studied in Charsadda district (lowlands) of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan through extensive field surveys, involving 116 farm households. Results have revealed that climate change factors including fluctuating temperature, evidence of yearly long droughts, and a steady shift in rainfall patterns have pressured the agriculture sector and livelihoods of the local peasants. The staggering floods of 2010 and 2011 in Pakistan have evidenced severe climatic changes in Pakistan. These countrywide floods have washed fertile soil in the study area that has directly contributed to losses in agricultural yield and increased vector-borne diseases in crops. The local farmers have commonly deployed adaptive measure such as crops diversification, changing fertilizer, and planting shaded trees to minimize the impacts of changes in climate. However, these adjustments measures are perceived as not appropriate for improving farm yield. Therefore, the study suggests that improved understanding of the climate change impacts and knowledge on adapting adequately will lead to no-regret adaptation. It will also help protecting farmer's lives and livelihoods and will boost their resilience towards changing climatic conditions. Graphical abstract .

Providing knowledge and support for caring relatives with the smartphone - the MoCaB project 

Political communities across the world have recently sought to tackle rising rates of vaccine hesitancy and refusal, by implementing coercive immunization programs, or by making existing immunization programs more coercive. Many academics and advocates of public health have applauded these policy developments, and they have invoked ethical reasons for implementing or strengthening vaccine mandates. Others have criticized these policies on ethical grounds, for undermining liberty, and as symptoms of broader government overreach. But such arguments often obscure or abstract away from the diverse values that are relevant to the ethical justifications of particular political communities' vaccine-mandate policies. We argue for an expansive conception of the normative issues relevant to deciding whether and how to establish or reform vaccine mandates, and we propose a schema by which to organize our thoughts about the ways in which different kinds of vaccine-mandate policies implicate various values.

To determine 1-year survival in a cohort of newborns with an Apgar score of 0 at 5 and 10 min of age. A retrospective cohort study of the Washington State Comprehensive Hospital Abstract Reporting System from 2005 to 2014. Of 879,340 births, 199 (0.02%) had an Apgar score of 0 at 5 min, and 109 (0.01%) also had a score of 0 at 10 min. One-year survival was 46% for newborns with Apgar score of 0 at 5 and 10 min. One-year survival by gestational age was 4% for newborns <30 weeks, 38% for 30-35 weeks, and 67% for ≥36 weeks. Survival at 1 year of age for newborns with an Apgar score of 0 at 5 and 10 min has improved, as compared with historic cohorts. Cautious optimism is warranted since morbidity-free survival could not be assessed.

Clinical Practice Guidelines: An Ambiguous Term With Potentially Unexpected Legal Consequences 

Stakeholder engagement in health policy research is often said to increase 'research impact', but the active role of stakeholders in creating impact remains underexplored. We explored how stakeholders shaped the translation of health policy research into action. Our comparative case-study tracked a European research project that aimed to transfer an existing tobacco control return on investment tool. That project also aimed to increase its impact by engaging with stakeholders in further developing the tool. We conducted semi-structured interviews, using an actor-scenario mapping approach. Actor-scenarios can be seen as relational descriptions of a future world. We mapped the scenarios by asking stakeholders to describe who and what would play a role in the tool's utilisation. Our results show that stakeholders envisioned disparate futures for the tool. Some scenarios were specific, whereas most were generic projections of abstract potential users and responsibilities. We show how stakeholders mobilised elements of context, such as legislative support and agricultural practice, that would affect the tool's use. We conclude that stakeholders shape knowledge translation processes by continuously putting forth explicit or implicit scenarios about the future. Mapping actor-scenarios may help in aligning knowledge production with utilisation. Insights into potential roles and responsibilities could be fed back in research projects with the aim of increasing the likelihood that the study results may be used.

The article by Marryat, Thompson and Wilson (2017) in BMC Pediatrics presents an evaluation of the implementation of the Triple P system as a public health intervention conducted by the Glasgow City Council and NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde. Unfortunately, the conclusions drawn are questionable for multiple reasons. The lack of a controlled design precludes defensible conclusions about intervention effects free from routine threats to internal validity. There was a substantial mismatch between the intervention sample and the population sample assessed. The article's title and abstract leave readers with the mistaken impression that the children assessed for outcome were suitably representative of intervention families, when in fact many of the children in the intervention families were missing from the teacher-report outcome assessment (a single questionnaire), and many or most of the children in the teacher-report outcome assessment belonged to families who had never received the intervention. Although Triple P targets parent-child relations and child behavioural and emotional problems at home, Marryat et al. narrowly defined mental health impact as child difficulties in nursery or preschool, while not reporting data from practitioners and parents in the same evaluation that did not support the authors' conclusion. The paper was further diminished by a number of misleading statements and factual errors related for example to other research on Triple P. Studying the extent to which child mental health functioning at home can generalise to school settings is an important topic of inquiry in relation to parenting support interventions, but unfortunately the Marryat et al. article did not move this area forward.

Among women living with HIV, intimate partner violence (IPV) is increasingly recognised worldwide as a serious public health concern. The understanding of the link between IPV and HIV is currently inconclusive and information concerning the IPV experiences of HIV-infected women is insufficient. This protocol aims to map evidence of IPV against women living with HIV/AIDS in Africa. We will search and review peer-reviewed and review articles. The comprehensive search will include the electronic databases PubMed, MEDLINE with full text via EBSCO host, Google Scholar, Science Direct and Scopus. The advanced search will use MeSH terms. Grey literature will also be included. The titles of the studies from the database searches will be screened, and duplicates will be removed. The abstract screening will be done independently by two reviewers, followed by the full-text screening which will be based on the eligibility criteria. The six methodological stages in this review will be to: identify the research questions; identify relevant studies; select the studies; chart the data; collate, summarise and report the results; and thereafter undertake consultations. The quality of studies included in the review will be determined by the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool. NVIVO software V.11 will be used to undertake a thematic analysis of each of the studies and to extract the relevant outcomes. The results of this study will be disseminated through publication, and presented at conferences related to IPV. Currently, a scoping review is not eligible for registration on the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews.

Analyze the concept "tipping point" in the older adult family caregiving context to further knowledge about caregiving families, enhancing transdisciplinary theory, research, and practice. While used commonly in some disciplines, how "tipping point" has been used in health care, generally, and in relation to caregiving families, specifically, is less clear. This project was conducted to offer conceptual clarity to tipping point. Walker and Avant's framework. Searches of scholarly literature in PsycINFO, CINAHL, and PubMed using the search term "tipping point" in either title or abstract. Definitions used were extracted; instances when the concept was implied but the actual term "tipping point" was not used and contexts where the term was used or implied were identified. The composite definition of a caregiving tipping point is a seemingly abrupt, severe, and absolute change event involving either the older adult or caregiver(s), or both that indicates a breakdown in the status quo of the caregiving system. Transdisciplinary research, care, and policy should treat caregiving families as complex systems, use longitudinal assessments, and include colloquial communication. Early detection of impending tipping points will provide family-centered decisional support and enhance families' quality of life and safety.

The long-term consequences of exposure to firearm injury-including suicide, assault, and mass shootings-on children's mental and physical health is unknown. Using PRISMA-ScR guidelines, we conducted a scoping review of four databases (PubMed, Scopus, PsychINFO, and CJ abstract) between January 1, 1985 and April 2, 2018 for articles describing long-term outcomes of child or adolescent firearm injury exposure (n = 3582). Among included studies (n = 31), most used retrospective cohorts or cross-sectional studies to describe the correlation between firearm injury and post-traumatic stress. A disproportionate number of studies examined the effect of mass shootings, although few of these studies were conducted in the United States and none described the impact of social media. Despite methodologic limitations, youth firearm injury exposure is clearly linked to high rates of post-traumatic stress symptoms and high rates of future injury. Evidence is lacking on best practices for prevention of mental health and behavioral sequelae among youth exposed to firearm injury. Future research should use rigorous methods to identify prevalence, correlates, and intervention strategies for these at-risk youth.

The recent "turn to matter" evident in material feminist theories of the more-than-human world offers distinct posthuman understandings of the world as continuously relationally entangled, emergent or materializing. In this paper, I consider how these premises both trouble conventional understandings of matter and/or materials, but likewise potentially revise and revitalize understandings of the political for health and inequalities, and for nursing. This is both timely and much needed given contemporary contexts of austerity-driven neoliberalism in health care and the unprecedented growth in disparities of wealth and well-being. I wish to explore whether material feminisms allow us to retheorize connections between abstract theory and material concerns like health and inequalities, differently. This is not theory in opposition to practice or activism, but theory conceptualized as sets of entangled emergent practices, but also what constitutes the political, as more fully relational to and in praxis with health-related activism. I will argue these theories further justify how practitioners can visibly care for and care more about social and health inequalities. Drawing mainly on the work of material feminist, Karen Barad, and her bringing together of queer and feminist theory, as well as feminist new materialisms and understandings of posthumanism, I discuss how this turn to matter together with meaning might transform understandings of health and inequalities.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Depression affects 1 in 20 Americans, and people living with HIV experience depression at 2-3 times the rate of the general population. Recent research has shown that a person's level of social connectedness (e.g., social networks) is important to understanding their health and ability to get help when they need it. The scientific rationale of this work is to determine whether there is a direct relationship between levels of depression and a measure of social connectedness in people with HIV who are at higher than normal risk of depression and depressive symptoms. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We examined the relationship between levels of depression and social capital in people living with HIV to determine whether depression may influence their beliefs about their social connectedness and available resources. We found that as depression increases, self-reported social capital decreases, suggesting that people living with HIV who are depressed may feel less socially connected and/or not be confident they can access resources when they need them. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Mental health nurses are particularly well-positioned to help people living with HIV who are living with depression by helping them build skills for building and maintaining relationships, adhering to co-administered HIV and mental health medical treatments, and helping these individuals to identify and address barriers to social connectedness. Helping people living with HIV to address depression and promoting social connectedness can not only improve quality of life, but have major long-term health benefits. Abstract Introduction People living with HIV (PLWH) are disproportionately burdened by depression, with estimates as high as 80% of PLWH reporting depressive symptoms. Depression in PLWH is complex, and has been linked with biological and psychosocial causes, including low social capital. Few studies have examined the relationship between social capital and depression in PLWH. Aim/Question We conducted a secondary analysis of the relationship between social capital (Social Capital Scale score) and depression (Beck Depression Inventory-II scores) to determine whether depression predicted levels of social capital in a sample of 108 PLWH. Results Depression was significantly associated with lower social capital r(105) = -.465 p < .001. Depression remained a significant predictor of social capital in the linear regression model, F(5,101) = 8.508, p < .000, R

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Caregivers of children with disabilities are at increased risk of experiencing interpersonal violence and its consequences; however, there is limited research targeting this population. This problem is understudied in Sub-Saharan Africa. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Study examines intimate partner violence and depression among men and women caregivers of children with disabilities. Study findings showed that while a higher proportion of women caregivers of children with disabilities than men reported experiencing intimate partner violence and were at increased risk depression, the differences were not statistically significant. Participants reporting any form of violence (i.e. psychological aggression or physical assault) were at increased risk for depression, with those experiencing a combination of physical assault and psychological aggression having the highest risk for depression. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Professionals working families of individuals with disabilities should be cognizant of the added stress and comorbid factors associated with caring for a child with a disability. Future research should examine whether there is a causal relationship between intimate partner violence and depression among caregivers of children with disabilities and compare this relationship with the general population. ABSTRACT: Introduction Mental health correlates of intimate partner violence (IPV) victimization are well documented. However, caregivers of children with disabilities (CCWDs) are underrepresented in empirical investigations and may have an increased risk of experiencing IPV and its consequences. This is particularly important in Sub-Saharan Africa where this problem is understudied. Method The present study estimated the prevalence of IPV victimization and examined the association between IPV and depression in a sample of CCWDs living in Nairobi, Kenya. Results Nearly half (49.8%) of the participants experienced some form of IPV and more than half (51.8%) were at risk of depression. Participants reporting psychological and physical violence were 1.76 and 4.81 times more likely to be at risk for depression, respectively. Those experiencing a combination of physical and psychological violence were 4.85 times more likely to be at risk for depression. Discussion Both men and women CCWDs are at an increased risk for IPV and depression. Social-cultural factors are also important in the prediction of depression risk and should be taken into account when working with CCWDs. Implications Mental health professionals should be cognizant of the added stress of being a CCWD, and the link between CCWDs and comorbid mental health outcomes.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Contemporary mental health policy stipulates consumer participation in all aspects of mental health services including service evaluation and other forms of mental health research. Research is identified as underpinning quality mental health services, and therefore, consumers researchers could enhance the mental health sector by contributing to the quality, credibility and relevance of mental health research. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Non-consumer researchers generally supported the concept of a consumer expert reference group for researchers at the individual and institutional level. A consumer expert reference group should reflect diversity and offer expertise relevant to the topic of research and may represent one way to normalize partnerships with consumer researchers and realize the benefits they can bring to research. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Quality mental health services are underpinned by robust research evidence. It is crucial that consumers are active participants in research activity. The availability of a consumer expert reference group could facilitate collaborations between consumer and non-consumer researchers and contribute to a stronger consumer focus embedded in mental health research. Abstract Introduction Contemporary mental health policy identifies consumers as active participants in all aspects of mental health services from design to evaluation. Consumer researchers should be actively involved in mental health research and contribute to quality service delivery. Aim To gain a snapshot of mental health researcher views on strategies for increasing research by or with consumers in mental health through the establishment of an Expert Consumer Researcher Group (ECRG). Methods Cross-sectional survey of 41 non-consumer mental health researchers from Australia or New Zealand. Results The introduction of an ECRG was considered an effective strategy for linking consumer and non-consumer researchers and providing specialist advice on research design and methodology. The most suitable location for this group was identified as within consumer advocacy agencies (71%), universities (66%) or research funding bodies (66%). Participants rated their likelihood of seeking advice from the ECRG as high. Discussion Research participants supported the value of an ECRG. They emphasized the importance of ensuring the group reflected a diversity of views and offered specialized expertise related to the specific topic. The ECRG could benefit both individual researchers and larger research organizations. Implications for practice An ECRG could facilitate collaborations with consumer researchers and in turn enhance the quality of mental health research.

Reports an error in "Do mentor support for ethnic-racial identity and mentee cultural mistrust matter for girls of color? A preliminary investigation" by Bernadette Sánchez, Julia Pryce, Naida Silverthorn, Kelsey L. Deane and David L. DuBois ( Participants were 40 adolescent girls of color who were matched with racially-ethnically diverse women mentors in a community-based mentoring program. Mentor support for ethnic-racial identity as reported by youth significantly predicted relative increases in youth reports of relational but not instrumental satisfaction. Higher mentor support for ethnic-racial identity also significantly predicted increases in ethnic identity exploration, but only among girls with White mentors. Further, youth's reported greater cultural mistrust toward Whites was a significant predictor of decreased instrumental relationship satisfaction among girls with White mentors. Findings support the importance of further efforts to understand the roles of culturally relevant relationship processes and youth attitudes in mentoring interventions for girls of color. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

Premature infants often experience extended stays in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) as opposed to home with parents. This prolonged separation creates a strain for both parents and infants, decreasing attachment and parental caregiving. One strategy to combat this shared stress is increasing parental participation, particularly through the use of their voices whether parents are present or not. This Evidence-Based Practice Brief column explores the connection between mother and child, specifically the effects of maternal voice on infant autonomic stability, weight gain, and behavioral states. A systematic search of CINAHL, PubMed, and PsycInfo was used to identify studies involving the use of maternal voice intervention with preterm infants in the NICU. Fifteen studies were identified. Three intervention categories emerged: (1) live maternal speech, (2) recorded maternal speech (subcategories included whether intervention content was prescribed or not), and (3) recorded maternal speech that was combined with biological maternal sounds (heart rate). Within each category, studies were organized chronologically to reflect how knowledge has changed overtime. Maternal voice has physiological as well as behavioral and emotional effect on preterm infants. Several studies found that maternal voice increased autonomic stability improving (heart rate and respirations) as well as weight gain. No negative effects were identified. Given these findings, incorporating different types of maternal voice into routine care by the bedside nurse can assist the mother in feeling more involved in her infant's care without seemingly being a distraction or obstacle to providers. A major limitation for generalizability was sample size; more research is needed with larger sample sizes replicating interventions types to discern best outcomes.Video Abstract available at https://journals.lww.com/advancesinneonatalcare/Pages/videogallery.aspx?videoId=31&autoPlay=true.

To evaluate the association between marijuana use and a composite adverse pregnancy outcome using biological sampling. Retrospective cohort study. Single tertiary center. Young women (13-22 years old) with singleton, non-anomalous pregnancies delivered from September 2011 to May 2017. Exposure was defined as marijuana detected on universal urine toxicology testing or by self-report. Multivariable logistic regression modelling was used to estimate the effect of any marijuana use on the primary composite outcome. The effect of marijuana exposure was also estimated for self-reported use, toxicology-detected use, and multiple use detected by toxicology. The primary composite outcome included spontaneous preterm birth, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, stillbirth, or small for gestational age. Of 1206 pregnant young women, 17.5% (n = 211) used marijuana. Among the women who used marijuana, 8.5% (n = 18) were identified by self-report alone, 63% (n = 133) by urine toxicology alone, and 28.4% (n = 60) by both. Urine toxicology testing results were available for 1092 (90.5%) births. The composite outcome occurred more frequently in pregnancies exposed to marijuana (46 versus 34%, P < 0.001). This remained significant after adjusting for race/ethnicity and tobacco in the multivariable model (adjusted OR 1.50, 95% CI 1.09-2.05). When marijuana exposure was defined by self-report only, the association with adverse pregnancy outcome became non-significant (adjusted OR 1.01, 95% CI 0.62-1.64). In a population of young women with nearly universal biological sampling, marijuana exposure was associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. The heterogeneity of findings in existing studies evaluating the impact of marijuana on mothers and neonates may result from the incomplete ascertainment of exposure. Marijuana use, as detected by universal urine testing, was associated with a composite adverse pregnancy outcome among young mothers.

Despite a wealth of empirical exploration on neutralization theory, several aspects of the theory remain underexplored. For instance, one task of neutralization research is to investigate whether and how neutralizations vary with offender characteristics. A second underexplored area is whether the neutralizations offenders present when directly asked about feelings of guilt are similar or dissimilar to those they have incorporated into their narrative identities described during interviews. A third underexplored issue is whether offenders that exhibit little guilt for committing mala prohibita crimes use neutralizations in a similar manner as those who do not express guilt for committing mala in se crimes. The present study examines these questions by drawing from data collected from interviews with 33 active drug sellers from St. Louis, Missouri, USA and 30 active drug sellers from Atlanta, Georgia, USA. We find that these offenders' neutralizations vary by drug type and by differential access to resources. We also find that, in addition to the neutralizations they give when asked about guilt, these offenders also preemptively neutralize feelings of guilt by constructing identities counter to bad "drug dealers" throughout their storied identities. We conclude by suggesting that neutralizations vary by offender characteristics due to the differing background expectancies of offenders' social groups. We also suggest that neutralizing the repercussions of immoral actions is not always a static, monothematic technique. It is instead an active, complex, and interactional process that occurs as persons make sense of who they are and what they are doing. Finally, we argue that studies of neutralization theory relying on direct, standardized questions or the presentation of abstract vignettes may fail to capture a sizable part of the neutralization process among offenders.

The hologenome concept of evolution is discussed, with special emphasis placed upon the microbiome of women. The microbiome is dynamic, changing under different conditions, and differs between women and men. Genetic variation occurs not only in the host, but also in the microbiome by the acquisition of novel microbes, the amplification of specific microbes, and horizontal gene transfer. The majority of unique genes in human holobionts are found in microbiomes, and mothers are responsible for transferring most of these to their offspring during birth, breastfeeding, and physical contact. Thus, mothers are likely to be the primary providers of the majority of genetic information to offspring via mitochondria and the microbiome. TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: Microbiomes differ between women and men. Most genes in humans are in the microbiome. Mothers transfer most of these genes to offspring.

Due to a steady rise in cultural and linguistic diversity in healthcare settings and evident challenges associated with this diversity, there is an urgent need to address cultural competency of nurses. Ongoing, continuing professional development is needed to ensure nurses can provide culturally congruent nursing care. The aim of this systematic review was to identify current best evidence on the types of educational interventions that have been developed to improve nurses' self-assessed cultural competence and on the effectiveness of these interventions. A systematic literature review. Four electronic databases (PubMed, CINAHL, Medic, Eric) were searched for studies using a quasi-experimental design or randomised controlled trial published between January 2000 and June 2018. Guidelines from the Centre for Review and Dissemination and the Joanna Briggs Institute guided the review. Two researchers independently assessed the eligibility of the studies by title, abstract and full-text and the methodological quality of the studies. Data tabulation and narrative analysis of study findings was performed. Six studies met criteria for inclusion in the review. Studies used a quasi-experimental study design (n = 5) and a randomised controlled trial (n = 1). The participants (n = 334) were mainly nurses and interventions were conducted in various healthcare settings. Cultural competence education was offered through traditional contact teaching (n = 5) or web-based modules (n = 1) and ranged from one to 17 hours in length. Learning was enhanced through lectures, group discussions, case studies, reflective exercises and simulations. In two studies, following cultural competence interventions, participants in the intervention group had statistically significantly increased levels of competence in culture-related outcomes when compared to the control group. The four remaining studies did not include control group comparisons. Effect sizes (Cohen's d) of the studies varied from small (d = 0.22) to very large (d = 1.47). There continues to be a need for high quality studies investigating educational interventions to develop nurses' cultural competence. Further research should focus on reporting specific components of interventions that result in an increase in cultural competence.

The present investigation describes three studies testing the hypothesis that children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) show an atypical preference for non-social stimuli. Preference for non-social and social stimuli was assessed using applications on a portable tablet computer. Twenty-eight children with ASD were matched on developmental age with the chronological age of 41 typically developing (TD) children. The non-social stimuli consisted of six different films of abstract moving geometric patterns. Social stimuli were six different films of the face of young adults (Study 1 and 3) or six films of different dogs' faces (Study 2). When given a choice between the non-social and social stimuli, children with ASD preferred the non-social stimuli. When the human faces were replaced with dogs' faces the participants with ASD continued to prefer the non-social stimuli. A high reinforcement value of non-social stimuli was also demonstrated when the non-social stimuli were presented alone, suggesting the preference for the non-social stimuli was not simply an avoidance of social stimuli. Whenever an infant prefers non-social stimuli over social stimuli, non-typical development in social communication and social interests may result, together with the development of high levels and frequently occurring stereotyped and repetitive behavior. These behaviors define Autism.

The National Family Health Survey-4 in India provided the first nationally representative estimates of hysterectomy among women aged 15-49. This paper aims to examine the national and state-level age-specific prevalence of hysterectomy, individual and household level factors associated with the procedure, and state-level indicators that may explain variation across states. Cross-sectional, nationally representative household survey. National Family Health Survey was conducted across all Indian states and union territories between 2015 and 2016. The survey covered 699 686 women between the ages of 15 and 49 years. Descriptive analyses and multivariate logistic regression. Women who reported ever having a hysterectomy and age at hysterectomy. Age-specific prevalence of hysterectomy was 0.36% (0.33,0.39) among women aged 15-29; 3.59% (3.45,3.74) among women aged 30-39; and 9.20% (8.94,9.46) among women 40-49 years. There was considerable variation in prevalence by state. Four states reported age-specific prevalence similar to high-income settings. Approximately two-thirds of hysterectomies were conducted in private facilities, with similar patterns across age groups. At the national level, higher age and parity (at least two children); not having had formal schooling; rural residence (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 1.36; 95% CI 1.27,1.45; P < 0.01) and higher wealth status were associated with higher odds of hysterectomy. Previously sterilised women had lower odds (AOR 0.64; 95% CI 0.61,0,68; P < 0.01) of reporting hysterectomy. Exploratory analyses suggest state-level factors associated with prevalence of hysterectomy include caesarean section, female illiteracy, and women's employment. Hysterectomy patterns among women aged 15-49 in India indicate the critical need to ensure treatment options for gynaecological morbidity and to address hysterectomy among young women in particular. This study was part of the RASTA initiative of the Population Council's India country office under the Evidence Project supported by USAID. Hysterectomy patterns in India highlight the need for alternatives to treat gynaecological morbidity among younger women.

The mentalistic view of early theory of mind posits that infants possess a robust and sophisticated understanding of false belief that is masked by the demands of traditional explicit tasks. Much of the evidence supporting this mentalistic view comes from infants' looking time at events that violate their expectations about the beliefs of a human agent. We conducted a replication of the violation-of-expectation procedure, except that the human agent was replaced by an inanimate agent. Infants watched a toy crane repeatedly move toward a box containing an object. In the absence of the crane, the object changed location. When the crane returned, 16-month-old infants looked longer when it turned toward the object's new location, consistent with the attribution of a false belief to the crane. These results suggest that infants spontaneously attribute false beliefs to inanimate agents. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/qqEPPhd9FDo.

Depression and anxiety are two of the leading causes of disease burden in low-to-middle income coutnries. The World Health Organisation has engaged in a programme of scaling-up mental health services, but significant challenges remain. Improving mental health literacy in children and young people, a core part of recent, global health strategies has the potential to address some of these challenges. The study aims to co-develop and feasibility test, a culturally-appropriate toolkit to promote depression and anxiety focused mental health literacy and self-management skills in Indonesia, for children aged 11-15 years. A mixed methods study comprising four phases. Through a systematic review of existing evidence, phase 1 will review approaches to improve mental health literacy and self-management in South East Asia and critically review current evidence regarding intervention effect. Phase 2 will explore stakeholders' views on depression, anxiety and mental health more broadly and identify priorities for the intervention through the use of semi-structured interviews and/or focus groups with policy makers, clinicians, teachers, adolescent service users, carers and young people aged 11-15. Phase 3 will comprise iterative workshops with local stakeholders to present our findings and co-produce a testable, culturally appropriate toolkit to promote mental health literacy and depression/anxiety focused self-management in 11-15 year olds in Java, Indonesia. Phase 4 comprises feasibility evaluation of our developed intervention via nine in-depth case studies (Jakarta, Bogor and Magelang). We will examine the impact, acceptability and feasibility of our prototype intervention and produce evidence-based guidelines for wider implementation. Tools to support mental health literacy and self-management are a low cost way in which mental health services in LMICs can attempt to address the burden of anxiety and depression amongst children and young people. However, this is an underexplored area in Indonesia. Working closely with local stakeholders, this study will design and undertake feasibility evaluation of co-produced mental health literacy and anxiety and depression focussed interactive self-management tools. This abstract has also been published on the funders website (UK Research and Innovation. Improving Mental Health Literacy Among Young People aged 12-15 years in Indonesia 2019).

The lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) populations have unique health risks including an increased risk of mental health problems, high usage of recreational drugs and alcohol, and high rates of infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Healthcare workers' heteronormative attitudes compromise the quality of care to the LGBT population. The objective of this study was to provide an overview of documented evidence on South Africa interventions aimed at improving healthcare access for LGBT individuals using a systematic scoping review. This is a secondary literature review. An electronic search was conducted using the following databases: EBSCOhost, PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Google Scholar. Abstract and full article data were screened using inclusion and exclusion criteria by two researchers. Data extracted from the eligible studies were analysed using thematic analysis. The quality of the included studies was assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool, version 2011. Seventeen articles of the initial 151 hits were selected for review and an additional five files were identified through bibliographical search. Most studies had small sample sizes and focused on sexual health, targeting gay men and men who have sex with men in urban areas. Lesbians and bisexual women were not prioritised. It emerged from the review that LGBT issues were not covered in the healthcare worker curriculum. Further it was noted that there is a paucity of data on the South African LGBT population, as sexual orientation does not form part of the routine data set. The findings of this review indicate gaps in the literature, practice guidelines and policies in LGBT healthcare in South Africa.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Numerous studies have shown that organizational and managerial factors have significant effects on nurses' workplace well-being. There are few studies on the effects of nurses' perceptions of their supervisors' autonomy-supportive behaviours on their workplace well-being. There are few studies on the determinants of nurses' workplace well-being within a psychiatric context. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study examines the psychological processes underlying the relationship between nurses' perceptions of their supervisors' autonomy-supportive behaviours and their workplace well-being. Mental health nurses' perceptions of their supervisors' autonomy-supportive behaviours are indirectly and positively related to their workplace well-being through their positive effects on psychological need satisfaction. Autonomy and competence need satisfaction has stronger effects on workplace well-being than relatedness need satisfaction. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: When their supervisor gives nurses a meaningful rationale for tasks and acknowledges their feelings and views, they feel more autonomous, competent and related to others. It is important for nurses to feel autonomous and competent in order to experience well-being at work. Nurses' workplace well-being might be positively and negatively linked to quality of care and turnover intentions, respectively. Abstract Introduction There is growing interest in the relationships between work factors and nurses' workplace well-being. However, there has been very little research on the psychological processes underlying the relationships between nurses' perceptions of supervisors' autonomy-supportive managerial style and their workplace well-being. Aim/question Drawing on self-determination theory, we explored the mediating role of psychological need satisfaction (autonomy, competence and relatedness) in the relationships between nurses' perceptions of supervisors' autonomy-supportive managerial style and their workplace well-being, using a prospective design. Method A prospective questionnaire was given to nurses in eight French psychiatric units. Data were collected from a sample of 294 French nurses who completed measures of perceived supervisors' autonomy-supportive behaviours at Time 1 and of psychological need satisfaction, work engagement and job satisfaction at Time 2 one year later. Results Results revealed that nurses' perceptions of supervisors' autonomy-supportive managerial style were indirectly and positively related to their vigour, dedication, absorption and job satisfaction one year later through their positive effects on psychological need satisfaction. Discussion/implications for practice Overall, this paper sheds light on the indirect effect of nurses' perceptions of supervisors' autonomy-supportive behaviours on their workplace well-being. Theoretical contributions and future directions, as well as implications for practice, are discussed.

Intervention programs for psychological stress in children of military personnel in the USA - Results of a systematic literature review with regard to transferability to Germany 

The purpose of this systematic literature review is to describe the interventions for bereaved parents, evaluate intervention effectiveness through study methodology rigor, replicability, and theoretical foundations. We searched MEDLINE via PubMed (1966-2018), CINAHL (1937-present), PsycINFO (1887-present), and Embase (1947-present) using various search words and MeSH terms related to the study purpose. A blinded screening of title/abstract was performed, with conflicting inclusion decisions resolved through group discussions. Matrices for remaining articles were created and discussed among the team. The levels of evidence of the 9 records were rated from very low to high based on the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation guidelines. Our initial pool included 1025 articles. After the screening of titles/abstracts, 63 articles were retained for full-text reviews. Evaluated based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria, 9 records met the review criteria. Of the 9 records, 1 was graded as very low, 3 low, and 5 low to moderate. The interventions for bereaved parents varied from using single-model interventions such as expressive arts therapy and telephone support to multimodal interventions that combined resources (ie, peer support, resource packets, and health-care support). Only 1 study explicitly illustrated how its bereavement intervention was designed based on the proposed theoretical model. This review highlights the need for individualized, well-tested, and effective bereavement care interventions to support bereaved parents. In summary, the state of the science on interventions for bereaved parents is poor and much work needs to be done to effectively address the needs of bereaved parents, including both their physical and emotional health needs.

To assess the effectiveness of a counselling intervention in antenatal care settings for pregnant women who report domestic violence. Pre-experimental study with pretest-posttest design. Two public hospitals in Mumbai, India. In all, 2778 pregnant women accessing antenatal care (ANC) in the hospitals from February to November 2016 were approached for study participation; 2515 women consented. These women were screened by trained counsellors for domestic violence during pregnancy (domestic violence during pregnancy). Domestic violence during pregnancy was reported by 16.2% (408) of women. Of these, 155 women sought counselling services. Post-intervention analyses were carried out with 142 women at 6 weeks post-delivery; 13 women were not contactable. The 442 women who reported domestic violence during pregnancy were provided a minimum of two counselling sessions by trained counsellors during their ANC visits. A counselling intake form was used to collect pre- and post-intervention data. Prevalence of domestic violence during pregnancy, change in women's ability to cope, safety, and health. Prevalence of domestic violence during pregnancy (16.1%) was comparable to those of common obstetric complications routinely screened for during ANC. In all, 60-65% women reported cognitive changes such as recognising impact of violence and need to speak out against it. In all, 50.7% women took action at the individual level to address domestic violence during pregnancy. This change was not statistically significant (P-value 0.193). Of the women studied, 35.9% adopted at least one safety measure, and 84% of the women reported better health status post-intervention. Routine enquiry and counselling for domestic violence during pregnancy are effective in improving women's ability to cope, safety, and health. This study was funded by The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Improving coping strategies, safety and health of pregnant women who reported domestic violence by providing counselling in antenatal care setting.

Health economic evaluations are essential to support health care policy and investment decisions. To date, health economic evaluations in orthotics and prosthetics have focused on discrete components of an orthosis/prosthesis (e.g. a microprocessor controlled prosthetic knee joint) rather than the broader service provided by orthotist/prosthetists. As such, the contribution to orthotic/prosthetic policy and investment decisions is unclear. Whilst there are opportunities to conduct more informative health economic evaluations that describe the costs and benefits of the orthotic/prosthetic service, it is important that prospective research is informed by a critical review of the method design challenges and an understanding of how this research can be improved. The aim of this systematic review is to critically appraise the existing orthotic/prosthetic health economic evaluation literature and therefore determine evidence gaps, critical method design issues and the extent to which the literature informs orthotic/prosthetic policy and investment decisions. A comprehensive range of databases-AMED, EMBASE, MEDLINE and PsychINFO, Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), ProQuest Nursing and Allied Health, Web of Science, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) and specialty health economic databases-will be searched using National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) terms as well as the title, abstract, and keyword terms. Search terms related to the intervention (e.g. orthosis), including variants used by varying professional disciplines (e.g. brace), will be used in preference to defining the populations that use orthotic and prosthetic services (e.g. people living with rheumatoid arthritis). Search terms related to health economic evaluations will be guided by previously developed and tested search strings and align with recommendations by the Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health. Articles meeting the inclusion criteria will be hand-searched for relevant citations, and a forward citation search using Google Scholar will also be conducted to identify early online articles not yet indexed in traditional databases. Original research published in the English language and after 1 January 2000 will be included. The Checklist for Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) and the Consensus on Health Economic Criteria (CHEC)-Extended list will be used to appraise the methodological quality and identify sources of bias. Data extraction and appraisal will be conducted by one reviewer independently using appraisal instrument guidelines and a content specific decision aid with exemplars. A subsequent review by a second researcher will be undertaken to confirm the accuracy of the extraction and appraisal, and a final review by a third where consensus cannot be reached. The data will be extracted to a purpose-built data extraction template with decision-making guidelines to support consistency. Where possible, the findings of the review will be reported as a meta-analysis, although the heterogeneity of the literature will likely mean a narrative review that illuminates method design issues that contribute to imprecision and variation will be more appropriate. This protocol has been purposefully designed to summarise the existing evidence and appraise the methodological approaches used and the quality of the health economic evaluations in orthotics and prosthetics. What we learn from this review will be used to guide further work in this area and design more rigorous health economic evaluations into the future. PROSPERO CRD42018116910.

Children's oral health-related quality of life (COHQoL) measures are well known and widely used. However, rigorous systematic reviews of these measures and analyses of their quality are in absence. To systematically review and quantitatively assess the quality of COHQoL measures through a scoping review. Systematic literature search of PubMed, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), EMBASE (Excerpta Medica database), HaPI (Health and Psychosocial Instruments), and DOSS (Dentistry and Oral Sciences Source). The measure's focus was COHQoL; the child age ranged from 5 to 14 years; the publication was either a research article or a systematic review and related to caries; and it was written in English or had an English abstract. Two authors independently selected the studies. Disagreements were reconciled by group discussions with a third author. The International Society for Quality of Life Research minimum standards for patient-reported outcome measures were used for quality appraisal. Descriptive analysis. We identified 18 measures. Their quality scores ranged from 9.5 to 15.0 on a scale of 16. The quality appeared to bear no relationship to the citation and use of these measures. However, elements of these measures might be more useful than others, depending on the age-specific use and primary quality concerns. Some of the information on the minimum standards of the 18 measures cannot be found in the existing literature. Measures published without English abstract were not searched. The quality of these measures is suboptimal. Researchers and practitioners in this field should exercise caution when choosing and using these measures. Efforts at improving the quality of the COHQoL measures, such as refining existing ones or developing new measures, are warranted. Researchers, clinician scientists, and clinicians can use the results of this study when deciding which oral health-related quality of life measure they wish to use in children.

Early abstract reasoning has typically been characterized by a "relational shift," in which children initially focus on object features but increasingly come to interpret similarity in terms of structured relations. An alternative possibility is that this shift reflects a learned bias, rather than a typical waypoint along a universal developmental trajectory. If so, consistent differences in the focus on objects or relations in a child's learning environment could create distinct patterns of relational reasoning, influencing the type of hypotheses that are privileged and applied. Specifically, children in the United States may be subject to culture-specific influences that bias their reasoning toward objects, to the detriment of relations. In experiment 1, we examine relational reasoning in a population with less object-centric experience-3-y-olds in China-and find no evidence of the failures observed in the United States at the same age. A second experiment with younger and older toddlers in China (18 to 30 mo and 30 to 36 mo) establishes distinct developmental trajectories of relational reasoning across the two cultures, showing a linear trajectory in China, in contrast to the U-shaped trajectory that has been previously reported in the United States. In a third experiment, Chinese 3-y-olds exhibit a bias toward relational solutions in an ambiguous context, while those in the United States prefer object-based solutions. Together, these findings establish population-level differences in relational bias that predict the developmental trajectory of relational reasoning, challenging the generality of an initial object focus and suggesting a critical role for experience.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Advance care planning (ACP) in mental health is a useful tool to avoid human rights violations in mental health settings. However, ACP is not yet a reality in the Spanish context. The advance healthcare directive (AHD) is a document reflecting healthcare preferences, drafted within the framework of the ACP process, to be applied in situations in which an individual's legal capacity may be questionable. No study has explored the viewpoint of Spanish mental healthcare professionals towards AHDs in the mental health field. Considering their extensive use, further study of providers' knowledge and attitudes is warranted. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The study adds knowledge about the viewpoint of Spanish mental healthcare professionals towards the implementation of AHDs in their clinical practices. This study illuminates the prevailing paternalistic provider-user relationship as the main barrier surrounding AHD management in terms of decision-making. Our findings support the need for broader awareness, staff training regarding the documentation, the conversation process and communication skills, and personalized assistance in the mental health services to implement AHDs in everyday practice. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Advance healthcare directives are a recovery tool that offers major information regarding mental health user preferences. Although they pose challenges for clinical practice, AHDs should be incorporated into interventional mental health care. Obtaining up-to-date perspectives held by mental healthcare professionals regarding AHDs allows the administration to determine the aspects requiring reinforcement. The implementation of AHDs in the Spanish mental health system requires macro- and micro-changes, both ethically and structurally, so that mental healthcare professionals relinquish their paternalistic approach and embrace new ways of relating to users. Abstract Introduction An advance healthcare directive (AHD) is a written document that contains a patient-in-care's will and preferences concerning the treatment options available to them, should they lack decision-making capacity. AHDs are completed within a broader framework known as advance care planning. No study has explored the viewpoint of Spanish mental healthcare professionals towards AHDs. Aim To explore the viewpoint of mental health professionals towards the implementation of AHDs in mental health. Method A qualitative study was conducted using semi-structured interviews that were thematically analysed. Findings Three main themes were identified: care planning culture; barriers for the practical management of AHDs; and reasons to not honour patient-in-care AHDs. Discussion Professionals find it pragmatically difficult to stop applying traditional paternalistic practices. To implement AHDs, improving the knowledge and awareness of AHDs and management of non-technical skills through training is required. Such training should include users and families and allow for compliance with United Nations requirements. Implications for practice Advance healthcare directives offer important information regarding user preferences, although they pose challenges for practices. Acquiring an up-to-date perspective on the attitudes of professionals towards AHDs allows organizations to attend to particular aspects that require reinforcement. Wider awareness, staff training and new ways of relating to users are necessary to implement AHDs in Spanish context. Relevance statement A better understanding of the attitudes of Spanish mental health professionals towards AHDs was achieved. Despite the implementation of AHDs being an important and potentially beneficial initiative, mental health professionals find many pragmatic issues that need addressing before AHDs become a reality in their clinical practice. Wider awareness, staff training, personalized assistance and new ways of relating to users are required to implement AHDs in everyday practice.

High-quality evidence supporting clinical practice is lacking in apheresis. A potential source of evidence is provided by abstracts submitted to the Annual Meetings of the American Association of Blood Banks (AABB) and the American Society for Apheresis (ASFA). However, there is potential for study conclusions to be altered significantly following abstract presentations prior to publications in peer-reviewed journals. Therefore, we evaluated the discordance rate between apheresis-related meeting abstracts and their corresponding published articles. Abstracts accepted to either AABB or ASFA Annual Meetings from 2005 to 2012 and corresponding PubMed-indexed peer-reviewed articles' abstracts published prior to 9/2014 were reviewed for altered methods, results, and conclusions. When present, changes were evaluated for clinical significance. During the 8-year period, 198 out of 1152 abstracts were published as peer-reviewed articles. Of these, 36 (18.2%) presented discordant results, six of which (16.7%) were potentially clinically significant. An alteration in results (58.3%) was the leading reason for discordance. The discordance rate for ASFA abstracts was significantly higher (HR = 4.69, P = 0.0028) than the AABB ones. However, clinically significant alterations occurred more frequently among AABB abstracts (P = 0.025). Approximately 18% of meeting abstracts demonstrated alterations prior to publication in peer-reviewed journals. Given that approximately one in six changes represented clinically significant alterations, potentially affecting clinical practice, we recommend caution when modifying one's clinical practice based on abstract presentations at Annual Meetings. Future studies involving abstracts from both the International Society for Apheresis and the World Apheresis Association should also be performed.

Human language and intelligence go far beyond biological needs, allowing us to discuss abstract ideas, construct imaginary worlds, and do science and mathematics. How did such an ability arise? I propose that a major contributing factor was an arms race between truth and deception in storytelling. In honeybees, an elaborate language could evolve because reproductive conflicts of interest between individuals were reduced. For humans, however, reproductive conflicts of interest became a spur for increasing intelligence. Through the drive to negotiate social interactions, primate intelligence reached the point where knowledge could be shared through basic problem-resolution proto-stories, building on the way animals learn. As soon as honest proto-stories became possible, so did dishonest ones, ushering in an arms race between truth and deception, through which stories, language and skills in detecting lies through contradictions, were driven to ever greater heights. In telling stories to others, humans also told them to themselves, allowing them to think consciously and plan ahead. Through fictions they could share understanding by making discrepancies stronger and more engaging. Science arose when skills in detecting lies through empirical contradictions were applied to stories about how the world operates, whereas mathematics arose when skills in discerning lies through self-contradiction were applied to abstract reasoning. Both scientists and mathematicians used the storytelling structure of problem-chain-resolution to share their findings, founded on the principles of animal learning. Human intelligence thus arose through, and continues to depend upon, a balance between trust and doubt in the stories we share.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Patient and public involvement (PPI) is recognized as an increasingly important feature of healthcare research, education and public policy. In mental health, PPI is increasingly seen as evidence of the further democratization of services, which started with de-institutionalization in the 1960s and the recovery movement in the 1990s. While much is known about learning enablers and learning gains on generic community-based training programmes, less is known about PPI-specific programmes in mental health. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Participants at a national training programme to support the engagement of service users, their families and carers in mental health services identified training topics of greatest importance to them and reported on what they learnt and what helped their learning. Patient and public involvement training initiatives aimed at supporting the engagement of service users, their families and carers should emphasize individual needs and local contexts. Training programmes should not make artificial or actual distinctions between the programme participants who are health professionals and those who are non-professionals, such as service users. To our knowledge, this PPI initiative is the first time a national health service provider has sought to develop an engagement structure in mental health on a state-wide basis. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Participants in training programmes designed to support patient and public involvement believe that such programmes should include understanding how conflict is resolved, how committees work effectively and how to develop interpersonal and facilitation skills. Training programmes in mental health involving both professional and non-professional participants requires all the participants to work together in particular at commissioning and design stages to achieve their desired outcome. The evaluation of the training programme to support the roll-out of this initiative offers lessons to others who may wish to pursue similar structures in other jurisdictions. Abstract Introduction The Irish national mental health service provider commissioned a national training programme to support a patient and public involvement (PPI) initiative in mental health services. The programme evaluation afforded an opportunity to describe the learning gains and learning enablers and the factors that support PPI in mental health. Aim We aimed to evaluate a PPI training programme across nine regional administrative units in a national mental health service. Methods We conducted a participant exit survey, using the Student Assessment of Learning Gains (SALG) instrument. We analysed the survey responses using SPSS version 24 software and applied directed content analysis to the narrative comments provided in open-ended questions. Results A total of 54 participants returned the completed questionnaire, yielding a response rate of 60%. The overall mean SALG score yielded was 3.97 (SD 0.66; range 1-5), indicating that participants reported very good to excellent gains in their learning from the programme. Participants who offered narrative comments indicated an overall positive experience but suggested that all stakeholders should work together to co-produce the training. Discussion All the stakeholders in a PPI training initiative to support the engagement of service users, their families and carers in mental health should work together to achieve their desired outcome. This requires co-production in the design, delivery and evaluation of the training initiative, and co-production can impact at both individual and local levels. Implications for Practice PPI training initiatives in mental health should retain a focus on understanding conflict resolution, committee effectiveness, interpersonal and facilitation skills. Ensuring a shared understanding of key concepts, such as co-production, is a necessary prerequisite at the co-commissioning, co-design, co-planning, co-delivery and co-assessment stages of programme development, as is the need to avoid artificial or actual distinctions between health professionals and those who are non-professionals, such as service users. Relevance statement Mental health engagement and PPI are key principles underpinning modern mental health services and may increasingly impact on wider health service provision including policy and research imperatives. This paper discusses the evaluation of a PPI training programme and offers practical insights as to how such initiatives can be improved.

When a Parent Falls Severely Ill - Challenges for the Medical Practice from the Children's Perspective 

A high level of workplace social capital (WSC) may contribute to the protection of employees' health. We hypothesized that a participatory workplace intervention would increase the level of WSC defined as vertical WSC (i.e. WSC linking together employees and their leaders) and horizontal WSC (i.e. WSC bonding employees together). We conducted a secondary data analysis of a cluster randomized controlled trial that was implemented among all employees in 78 municipal Danish pre-schools (44 intervention and 34 control group schools). The study sample consisted of 606 employees, 386 in the intervention and 220 in the control group. The intervention aimed to improve the psychosocial working environment by using a participatory approach and focusing on core job tasks. Vertical and horizontal WSC was measured by five and four items, respectively, at baseline and at 24-months follow-up. We estimated intervention effect by calculating the interaction of change over time by group assignment (intervention versus control group) and included workplace identification number in a repeated statement to take into account that employees were nested within workplaces. We conducted post-hoc analyses to examine whether intervention effect differed by implementation degree. WSC decreased in both groups. In the main analyses, there was no statistically significant difference between intervention and control group, neither for vertical nor horizontal WSC. However, when we excluded intervention workplaces with a low degree of implementation, we found a statistically significant difference between the intervention and the control group (estimate: 0.25, 95% CI: 0.00 to 0.50, p = 0.049), indicating that vertical WSC decreased in the control group and remained stable in the intervention group. There was not a statistically significant difference between intervention and control group in the main analysis. Post-hoc analyses, however, suggest that the intervention may have prevented a decrease in vertical WSC among employees in workplaces with a high or a medium degree of implementation. A conference abstract with the key results of this study has been previously presented and published, European Journal of Public Health, Volume 28, Issue suppl_4, November 2018, cky260, https://academic.oup.com/eurpub/article/28/suppl_4/cky260/5187184 . ISRCTN16271504 , retrospectively registered on November 15, 2016.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported online in 

This chapter focuses on social assessment methods (known as SLCA) applied to industrial biotechnology (IB), which are part of the "life cycle" approach. IB is a heading for a set of different technologies. The first section presents a review of the literature to provide an analysis of the results and limitations of IB SLCA studies, with the main focus on the biofuel industries. Often conducted via a social performance analysis based on CSR (corporate social responsibility) criteria, most studies provide little new information. Nevertheless, there are some studies on the change caused by the emergence of an IB. These studies use national accounts input-output tables, which allow us to predict impacts. The second section suggests rules to follow in order to achieve a "good" SLCA in the field of IB, in other words, to be able to anticipate the main known impacts or at least to carry out the assessment in a rigorous and transparent fashion. The conclusion focuses on the prospects and challenges of IB SLCA, in a world which is experiencing immense upheaval. Graphical Abstract.

Marine organisms comprising animals and plants are wealthiest sources of bioactive compounds possessing various pharmacological properties specifically: free radical scavenging, antitumor, antimicrobial, analgesic, neuroprotective and immunomodulatory. Marine drugs provide an alternative source to meet the demand of effective, safe and low-cost drugs that are rising with the continuously growing world population. Cancer is one of the leading reasons of mortality in western nations in contrast to communicable diseases of developing nations. In spite of outstanding developments in cancer therapy in past three decades, there is still an insistent necessity for innovative drugs in the area of cancer biology, especially in the unexplored area of marine anticancer compounds. However, recent technological innovations in structure revelation, synthetic creation of new compounds and biological assays have made possible the isolation and clinical assessment of innumerable unique anticancer compounds from marine environment. This review provides an insight into the anticancer research so far conducted in the area of the marine natural products/synthetic derivatives, their possible molecular targets and the current challenges in the drug development. Graphical abstract.

Despite the undisputable benefits of tracheostomy, it has been reported to have links with impaired communication, reduced quality of life and a risk of health complications such as bleeding, tracheal stenosis and in some cases resulting in mortality. There is a paucity of literature on tracheostomy decannulation methods and procedures, leaving the decision to expert opinion and institutional guidelines. This study aimed to map evidence on methods and procedures of tracheostomy decannulation in adults and assessment of readiness for decannulation, to reveal knowledge gaps and inform further research. We conducted a systematic search of peer reviewed and grey literature on PubMed/MEDLINE, Google Scholar, Union Catalogue of Theses and Dissertations via SABINET Online, World Cat Dissertations and Theses via OCLC, WHO library and governmental websites from 1985 to present. Following title screening, abstract and full article screening was performed by two independent reviewers guided by the eligibility criteria. Data from included studies were extracted, collated, summarized and synthesized into the following themes: assessment, removal, monitoring and definition of failure of decannulation. Quality of the included studies was assessed using the Mixed Methods Appraisal Tool version 2011. Twenty-five out of 51 screened articles were eligible for data extraction. There was wide variation in the assessment methods employed across and within similar patient groups. The common themes that emerged in the assessment for readiness for decannulation are informed consent, clinical stability, airway patency, physiological decannulation, swallowing assessment, level of consciousness, effectiveness of cough and clearance of secretions. In conclusion, the current body of evidence is inadequate and requires further research, particularly validation of different parameters used. A protocol approach to decannulation may be inappropriate but rather an algorithmic approach using validated parameters.

Antidepressants and Suicidality: A Contradiction? 

Background Recent investigations have identified a faster time to publication for imaging studies with higher diagnostic test accuracy (DTA), but it is unknown whether such studies are more likely to be published. A higher probability of full-text publication for studies with higher DTA could have negative consequences on clinical decision making and patient care. Purpose To evaluate the proportion of imaging diagnostic accuracy studies presented as conference abstracts that reach full-text publication and to identify whether there is an association between diagnostic accuracy and full-text publication in peer-reviewed journals within 5 years after abstract submission. Materials and Methods Diagnostic accuracy research abstracts presented at the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) Annual Meeting in 2011 and 2012 were evaluated between September 1, 2017, and January 11, 2018. Sensitivity and specificity from the abstracts were used to calculate the Youden index (sensitivity + specificity-1); additional abstract characteristics were extracted. To identify full-text publications within 5 years after abstract submission, PubMed and Google Scholar were searched, and authors were contacted. Logistic regression analysis was used to assess for associations between higher diagnostic accuracy and full-text publication. Results A total of 7970 abstracts were evaluated, and 405 were included. Of these, 288 (71%) reached full-text publication within 5 years after abstract submission. Logistic regression analysis accounting for several confounding variables failed to show an association between reported Youden index in the conference abstract and probability of full-text publication (odds ratio, 1.01; 95% confidence interval: 0.99, 1.02; 

To validate the NHSLA maternity claims taxonomy at the level of a single maternity service and assess its ability to direct quality improvement. Qualitative descriptive study. Medico-legal claims between 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2016 from a maternity service in metropolitan Melbourne, Australia. All obstetric claims and incident notifications occurring within the date range were included for analysis. De-identified claims and notifications data were derived from the files of the insurer of Victorian public health services. Data included claim date, incident date and summary, and claim cost. All reported issues were coded using the NHSLA taxonomy and the lead issue identified. Rate of claims and notifications, relative frequency of issues, a revised taxonomy. A combined total of 265 claims and incidents were reported during the 6 years. Of these 59 were excluded, leaving 198 medico-legal events for analysis (1.66 events/1000 births). The costs for all claims was $46.7 million. The most common claim issues were related to management of labour (n = 63, $17.7 million), cardiotocographic interpretation (n = 43, $24.4 million), and stillbirth (n = 35, $656,750). The original NHSLA classification was not sufficiently detailed to inform care improvement programmes. A revised taxonomy and coding flowchart is presented. Systematic analysis of obstetric medico-legal claims data can potentially be used to inform quality and safety improvement. New taxonomy to target health improvement from maternity claims based on NHSLA Ten Years of Maternity Claims.

As part of a project to translate and validate scales used in the diagnosis and treatment of Arab patients with schizophrenia, this study aimed to explore the experience of clinical research coordinators (CRCs) while administering the Arabic version of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) on Arab schizophrenia patients. We previously reported that the Arabic version of PANSS is a valid and reliable tool to assess Arab patients with schizophrenia. Five CRCs and the principal investigator attended focus group discussions on cultural issues in administering the PANSS. A thematic analysis approach was utilized for data coding and analysis. The results identified issues related to the translation of the instrument, the structure of the interview, the cultural sensitivity of some questions, and the procedures for rating items of the PANSS. Qualitative analysis also identified four main themes relevant to clinical assessment of patients from Middle Eastern cultures: religion, beliefs and values, gender, and semantic expressions. In conclusion, researchers or clinicians administering the PANSS scale interview in Arabic should be trained to consider the roles of local dialects, familiarity with abstract thinking, religion, and social constructs when assessing psychosis.

To assess the coverage and adequacy of antenatal care services (ANC) available to women and examine the socio-economic determinants affecting service utilisation. Secondary data analysis of a population-based national survey. India, 2015/16. In all, 190 898 women between 15 and 49 years of age who had a live birth during the 5 years preceding the survey. Ordinal logistic regression. Adequacy of ANC services received was measured under four categories - delivery of services by skilled personnel, timely provision of services, sufficiency and appropriateness of content. Quality of care was categorised as adequate ANC, inadequate ANC and no ANC. Only 23.5% (95% CI 23.1-23.9%) of all women received adequate ANC, while 58.8% (95% CI 58.4-59.2%) received inadequate and 17.7% (95% CI 17.4-18.0%) received no ANC services. Regression analysis revealed that women belonging to the adolescent age group, illiterate women, and those in the poorest wealth quintile and in rural areas were less likely to receive any ANC. There is a need to improve the quality of ANC services. Currently, <25% of women of all ages receive adequate ANC. Socio-economic conditions play a vital part in determining the quality of care that women receive. Nearly one out of four women in India received adequate ANC, nearly three in every five women received inadequate ANC and 18% lacked ANC for their recent live birth.

Globally, gender differences are reported in the early acquisition of reading and mathematics as girls tend to outperform boys in reading, whereas boys tend to outperform girls in mathematics. This can have long-term impact resulting in an under-representation of girls in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics subjects. Recent research suggests that sociocultural factors account for differences across genders in the acquisition of these foundational skills. In this study, we investigated whether a new technology-based intervention, that included activities accessible to both boys and girls, can reduce gender differences from emerging during the early primary school years. The novel instructional method used in this study employed apps developed by onebillion© delivered individually through touch-screen tablets. Over a series of experiments conducted in Malawi, a low-income country in sub-Sahara Africa, we found that when children were exposed to standard pedagogical practice typical gender differences emerged over the first grade (Experiment 1). In contrast, boys and girls learnt equally well with the new interactive apps designed to support the learning of mathematics (Experiment 2) and reading (Experiment 3). When implemented at the start of primary education, before significant gender discrepancies become established, this novel technology-based intervention can prevent significant gender effects for mathematics. These results demonstrate that different instructional practices influence the emergence of gender disparities in early mathematics. Digital interventions can mitigate gender differences in countries where standard pedagogical instruction typically hinders girls from acquiring early mathematical skills at the same rate as boys. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=55x-6hhAY9M&feature=youtu.be.

Maternal exercise improves the metabolic health of maternal mice challenged with a high-fat diet. Exercise intervention of obese mothers prevents fetal overgrowth. Exercise intervention reverses impaired placental vascularization in obese mice. Maternal exercise activates placental AMP-activated protein kinase, which was inhibited as a result of maternal obesity. More than one-third of pregnant women in the USA are obese and maternal obesity (MO) negatively affects fetal development, which predisposes offspring to metabolic diseases. The placenta mediates nutrient delivery to fetuses and its function is impaired as a result of MO. Exercise ameliorates metabolic dysfunction resulting from obesity, although its effect on placental function of obese mothers has not been explored. In the present study, C57BL/6J female mice were randomly assigned into two groups fed either a control or a high-fat diet (HFD) and then the mice on each diet were further divided into two subgroups with/without exercise. In HFD-induced obese mice, daily treadmill exercise during pregnancy reduced body weight gain, lowered serum glucose and lipid concentration, and improved insulin sensitivity of maternal mice. Importantly, maternal exercise prevented fetal overgrowth (macrosomia) induced by MO. To further examine the preventive effects of exercise on fetal overgrowth, placental vascularization and nutrient transporters were analysed. Vascular density and the expression of vasculogenic factors were reduced as a result of MO but were recovered by maternal exercise. On the other hand, the contents of nutrient transporters were not substantially altered by MO or exercise, suggesting that the protective effects of exercise in MO-induced fetal overgrowth were primarily a result of the alteration of placental vascularization and improved maternal metabolism. Furthermore, exercise enhanced downstream insulin signalling and activated AMP-activated protein kinase in HFD placenta. In sum, maternal exercise prevented fetal overgrowth induced by MO, which was associated with improved maternal metabolism and placental vascularization in obese mothers with exercise.

This study utilized the Dr. Foster Global Comparators database to identify pregnancy complications and associated risk factors that led to severe maternal morbidity during delivery hospitalisations in large university hospitals based in the USA, Australia, and England. Retrospective cohort. Births in the USA, England and Australia from 2008 to 2013. Data from delivery hospitalisations between 2008 and 2013 were examined using the Dr. Foster Global Comparators database. We identified delivery hospitalisations with life-threatening diagnoses or use of life-saving procedures, using algorithms for severe maternal morbidity from the Center for Disease Control. Frequency of severe maternal morbidity was calculated for each country. Multivariable analysis was used to examine the association between morbidity and socio-demographic and clinical characteristics within each country. Chi-square tests assessed differences in covariates between countries. From 2008 to 2013, there were 516 781 deliveries from a total of 18 hospitals: 24.5% from the USA, 57.0% from England and 18.4% from Australia. Overall severe maternal morbidity rate was 8.2 per 1000 deliveries: 15.6 in the USA, 5.0 in England, and 8.2 in Australia. The most common codes identifying severe morbidity included transfusion, disseminated intravascular coagulation, acute renal failure, cardiac events/procedures, ventilation, hysterectomy, and eclampsia. Advanced maternal age, hypertension, diabetes, and substance abuse were associated with severe maternal morbidity in all three countries. Rates of severe maternal morbidity differed by country. Identification of geographical, socio-demographic, and clinical differences can help target modifications of practice and potentially reduce severe maternal morbidity. Rates of severe maternal morbidity vary, but risk factors associated with adverse outcomes are similar in developed countries.

Various socioeconomic factors as predictors of internalizing and externalizing disorders in children and adolescents 

Since "dignity" is one of the fundamental rights of every patient, consideration for patients' dignity is essential. Unfortunately, in many cases, especially in cancer patients, dignity is not fully respected. Dignity is an abstract concept, and there are only a few comprehensive studies on the dignity of cancer patients in Iran. This study aimed to evaluate the perception of Iranian cancer patients on human dignity. A qualitative research approach was used as the study design. The data were collected through individual semi-structured interviews and analyzed using the qualitative content analysis method.  This study was conducted on cancer patients in internal medicine wards in Iran. The data were gathered through semi-structured interviews from May 2017 to February 2018. The study protocol was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of medical universities located in Southwest of Iran. The ethical principles were carefully followed throughout the study. Based on the results of the interviews, 3 main themes and 11 categories were determined. The main themes were identified as the "personal space and privacy," "respect for human values," and "moral support." The results of the present study showed the necessity of care for cancer patients in a respectful manner. The key elements in such care were the preservation of their personal space and privacy, respect for their values, and the provision of adequate moral support. These measures will have a positive effect on the perception of such patients on human dignity. Considering the special care required by cancer patients, the Iranian healthcare and hygiene managers should design and implement a care plan that includes the ethical principles related to human dignity.

To compare severe maternal outcomes (SMOs) from two multi-centre surveys in Nigerian hospitals, and to evaluate how the SMO burden affects quality of secondary and tertiary hospital care. Two facility-based surveys of women experiencing SMO (maternal near-miss or maternal deaths). Sixteen secondary and five tertiary facilities in Nigeria [WHO Multi-Country Survey on Maternal and Newborn Health (WHOMCS)] and 42 public tertiary facilities in Nigeria (Nigeria Near-Miss and Maternal Death Survey). 371 women in WHOMCS-Nigeria and 2449 women in Nigeria Near-Miss and Maternal Death Survey who experienced SMO. Secondary analysis and comparison of SMO data from two surveys, stratified by facility level. Maternal mortality ratio (MMR) per 100 000 livebirths (LB), maternal near-miss (MNM) ratio per 1000 LB, SMO ratio per 1000 LB and mortality index (deaths/SMO). Maternal mortality ratio and mortality indices were highest in tertiary facilities of the WHOMCS-Nigeria (706 per 100 000; 26.7%) and the Nigeria Near-Miss and Maternal Death Survey (1088 per 100 000; 40.8%), and lower in secondary facilities of the WHOMCS-Nigeria (593 per 100 000; 17.9%). The MNM ratio and SMO ratio were highest in secondary WHOMCS-Nigeria facilities (27.2 per 1000 LB; 33.1 per 1000 LB). Tertiary-level facilities in Nigeria experience unacceptably high maternal mortality rates, but secondary-level facilities had a proportionately higher burden of severe maternal outcomes. Common conditions with a high mortality index (postpartum haemorrhage, eclampsia, and infectious morbidities) should be prioritised for action. Surveillance using SMO indicators can guide quality improvement efforts and assess changes over time. 2820 Nigerian women with severe maternal outcomes: high mortality in tertiary level hospitals, higher burden in secondary level.

Temporal-spatial distribution of synthetic pyrethroids (SPs) in overlying water and surface sediments and ecological risk to aquatic systems were investigated, where paired water and surface sediments were collected during dry and wet periods in Guangzhou urban waterways. Eight target SPs (i.e., tefluthrin, bifenthrin, cyhalothrin, permethrin, cyfluthrin, cypermethrin, esfenvalerate, and deltamethrin), with cypermethrin and permethrin as major components, were ubiquitously detected in both water (dissolved and particle phases, separately) and sediments. Significant increases of ΣSP (sum of eight SPs) concentrations were observed in both water and sediment from the dry period to the wet period. The spatial distribution of SPs was mostly impacted by land-use type, with the highest ΣSP concentrations in the residential areas, which indicates the massive application of pyrethroids in household mosquito control. It is demonstrated that SPs preferred to be adsorbed to the particles, and rainfall-induced runoff was suggested as an important mechanism that moved SPs to the receiving waterways. A rising trend on sediment concentrations of SPs in the Guangzhou area in the last decade implied increasing application of pyrethroid insecticides, with cypermethrin and permethrin as the dominant components, where the contamination of SPs was positively related with urbanization rate (e.g., resident population and green coverage area). A special emphasis was placed on the potential effects of both individual SPs and their mixtures in three trophic levels (i.e., algae, daphnia, and fish) using toxic units (TUs) and risk quotients (RQs) for water and sediments. In spite of no acute effects due to SPs in the sediments, the toxic units showed daphnia as the most sensitive species in water, with acute risks to daphnia exhibited in several sampling sites. The risk assessment points out that a chronic toxicity (RQ index) caused by SPs in three trophic levels (algae, daphnia, and fish) exists, especially in Daphnia magna. Graphical abstract.

Since 2009, in Ontario, reportable disease surveillance data has been used for timely in-season estimates of influenza severity (i.e., hospitalizations and deaths). Due to changes in reporting requirements influenza reporting no longer captures these indicators of severity, necessitating exploration of other potential sources of data. The purpose of this study was to complete a retrospective analysis to assess the comparability of influenza-related hospitalizations and deaths captured in the Ontario reportable disease information system to those captured in Ontario's hospital-based discharge database. Hospitalizations and deaths of laboratory-confirmed influenza cases reported during the 2010-11 to 2013-14 influenza seasons were analyzed. Information on hospitalizations and deaths for laboratory-confirmed influenza cases were obtained from two databases; the integrated Public Health Information System, which is the provincial reportable disease database, and the Discharge Abstract Database, which contains information on all in-patient hospital visits using the International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision, Canada (ICD-10-CA) coding standards. Analyses were completed using the ICD-10 J09 and J10 diagnosis codes as an indicator for laboratory-confirmed influenza, and a secondary analysis included the physician-diagnosed influenza J11 diagnosis code. For each season, reported hospitalizations for laboratory-confirmed influenza cases in the reportable disease data were higher compared to hospitalizations with J09 and J10 diagnoses codes, but lower when J11 codes were included. The number of deaths was higher in the reportable disease data, whether or not J11 codes were included. For all four seasons, the weekly trends in the number of hospitalizations and deaths were similar for the reportable disease and hospital data (with and without J11), with seasonal peaks occurring during the same week or within 1 week of each other. In our retrospective analyses we found that hospital data provided a reliable estimate of the trends of influenza-related hospitalizations and deaths compared to the reportable disease data for the 2010-11 to 2013-14 influenza seasons in Ontario, but may under-estimate the total seasonal number of deaths. Hospital data could be used for retrospective end-of-season assessments of severity, but due to delays in data availability are unlikely to be timely estimates of severity during in-season surveillance.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess the empirical literature on wisdom• Evaluate a proposed model of wisdom development ABSTRACT: This article seeks to provide an overview of the empirical literature on wisdom in terms of its definitions and measurements, possible neurobiological basis, and evolutionary value, as well as changes with aging and potential clinical interventions to enhance components of wisdom. Wisdom may be defined as a complex human trait with several specific components: social decision making, emotion regulation, prosocial behaviors, self-reflection, acceptance of uncertainty, decisiveness, and spirituality. These components appear to be localized primarily to the prefrontal cortex and limbic striatum. Emerging research suggests that wisdom is linked to better overall health, well-being, happiness, life satisfaction, and resilience. Wisdom likely increases with age, facilitating a possible evolutionary role of wise grandparents in promoting the fitness of the species. Despite the loss of their own fertility and physical health, older adults help enhance their children's well-being, health, longevity, and fertility-the "Grandma Hypothesis" of wisdom. We propose a model of wisdom development that incorporates genetic, environmental, and evolutionary aspects. Wisdom has important implications at both individual and societal levels, and warrants further research as a major contributor to human thriving. There is a need for a greater emphasis on promoting wisdom through our educational systems from elementary to professional schools.

Conceptualizing both economic well-being (EWB) and children's development as multidimensional constructs, the present study examines their association using bioecological developmental theory and structural equation modeling with Zulu children (ages 7-10) in KwaZulu-Natal, a highly impoverished region of South Africa (N = 1,958). Relative EWB within impoverished communities consists of three dimensions: material assets (durable goods and living environment), fiscal appraisal (subjective experiences of access to/allocation of resources), and fiscal capacity (monetary inflow/outflow). Children's development also is measured across multiple dimensions: physical health, mental health, and executive functioning. In addition to an overall association between EWB and children's development across outcomes, the sub-dimensions of EWB are differentially related to aspects of children's development. The dimension of material assets exhibits the greatest association with child outcomes, while fiscal capacity exhibits the least. Implications of these findings are discussed, including the use of multidimensional approaches to measuring EWB to understand, more clearly, its relationship to multiple dimensions of children's development. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZcawZ6oOt-Q.

Health-promoting nudges have been put into practice by different agents, in different contexts and with different aims. This article formulates a set of criteria that enables a thorough ethical evaluation of such nudges. As such, it bridges the gap between the abstract, theoretical debates among academics and the actual behavioral interventions being implemented in practice. The criteria are derived from arguments against nudges, which allegedly disrespect nudgees, as these would impose values on nudgees and/or violate their rationality and autonomy. Instead of interpreting these objections as knock-down arguments, I take them as expressing legitimate worries that can often be addressed. I analyze six prototypical nudge cases, such as Google's rearrangement of fridges and the use of defaults in organ donation registration. I show how the ethical criteria listed are satisfied by most-but not all-nudges in most-but not all-circumstances.

This article analyses the balance which the GDPR strikes between two important social values: protecting personal health data and facilitating health research through the lens of the consent requirement and the research exemption. The article shows that the normative weight of the consent requirement differs depending on the context for the health research in question. This more substantive approach to consent is reflected in the research exemption which allows for a more nuanced balancing of interests. However, because the GDPR articulates the exemption at an abstract and principled level, in practice the balance is struck at Member State level. Thus, the GDPR increases difficulties for EU cross-border health projects and impedes the policy goal of creating a harmonised regulatory framework for health research. The article argues that in order to address this problem, the European Data Protection Board should provide specific guidance on the operation of consent in health research.

To investigate the prevalence of life-threatening complications related to pregnancies with abortive outcome and the associated health service events and performance in Nigerian public tertiary hospitals. Secondary analysis of a nationwide cross-sectional study. Forty-two tertiary hospitals. Women admitted for pregnancy-related complications. All cases of severe maternal outcomes (SMO: maternal near-miss or death) due to abortive pregnancy complications (defined as spontaneous or induced abortion, and ectopic pregnancy) were prospectively identified over 1 year using uniform identification criteria. Prevalence of SMO, mortality index (% maternal death/SMO), case fatality rate, time until death after admission, and health service performance. Of 5779 women admitted with abortive pregnancy complications, 444 (7.9%) experienced an SMO: 366 maternal near-misses and 78 maternal deaths. Intra-hospital maternal mortality ratio from complicated abortive pregnancy outcome was 85/100 000 live births. Case fatality rate was worst for abortion-related infections (19.1%). A quarter of maternal deaths occurred on the same day of admission; however, the peak time of occurrence of death was 3-7 days of admission. Women experiencing cardiovascular, renal or coagulation organ dysfunction were less likely to survive. Higher level of maternal education and closer residence to a health facility improved chance of maternal survival. Abortive outcome remains a major contributor to SMO in Nigeria. Although early hospital presentation by women is critical to surviving abortive pregnancy complications, improved, appropriate, and timely management is essential to enhance maternal survival. 78 maternal deaths and 366 near-misses occurred from abortions and ectopic pregnancies in 42 Nigerian referral hospitals in 1 year.

To investigate the burden of maternal near-miss and death due to rupture of the gravid uterus, the indicators of quality of care, and avoidable factors associated with care deficiencies for ruptured uterus in Nigerian tertiary hospitals. Secondary analysis of a nationwide cross-sectional study. Forty-two tertiary hospitals. Women admitted for pregnancy, childbirth or puerperal complications. Cases of severe maternal outcome [SMO: maternal near-miss (MNM) or maternal death (MD)] following uterine rupture were prospectively identified over 1 year. Incidence of SMO, indicators of quality of care, and avoidable factors associated with deficiencies in care. There were 91 724 live births and 3285 women with SMO during the study period. SMO due to uterine rupture occurred in 392 women: 305 MNM and 87 MD. Uterine rupture accounted for 11.9, 13.3, and 8.7% of all SMO, MNM, and MD, respectively. SMO, MNM, and intra-hospital maternal mortality ratios due to uterine rupture were 4.3/1000 live births, 3.3/1000 live births, and 94.8/100 000 live births, respectively. Mortality index (% of MD/SMO) was 22.2%, and MNM:MD ratio was 3.5. Avoidable factors contributing to deaths were related to patient-orientated problems, especially late hospital presentation and lack of insurance to cover life-saving interventions. Medical personnel problems contributed to care deficiencies in one-third of women who died. Uterine rupture significantly contributes to SMO in Nigerian tertiary hospitals. Strategies to improve maternal survival should address avoidable institutional factors and include community-based interventions to encourage skilled attendance at birth and early referral of complications. Uterine rupture remains an important cause of maternal death in Nigerian tertiary hospitals.

Dignified care is one of the moral responsibilities of professional caregivers. However, in many cases the dignity of hospitalized patients, especially women in the delivery room, is not maintained. Dignity is an abstract concept and there has been no previous research exploring the dignity of pregnant women in the delivery room in Iran. The objective of this study is to define and explain the concept of dignity for pregnant women in the delivery room from the perspectives of professional caregivers. This is qualitative research. The data were collected through in-depth semi-structured individual interviews. The conventional content analysis method was used to analyze the data. In qualitative content analysis, participant narrative is examined in-depth and sorted into categories and themes. Potential participants who met the entrance criteria for this study were approached between July 2016 and February 2017. In all, 20 professional caregivers working in the delivery room setting within Iranian general hospitals were invited to participate in the study. The sampling was done through targeted sampling until saturation was achieved. The research ethics committee of the Shiraz University of Medical Sciences has approved the study's protocol and all commonly recognized ethical principles were followed throughout the study. The findings of this study were presented in three main themes, including "privacy," "respecting patients' preferences," and "comprehensive attention" and eight categories. Women in the delivery room need to be taken care of in an environment where healthcare staff promote the preservation of dignity through maintaining privacy, by providing attentive care and through ensuring that patient preferences regarding care and treatment are respected. In such an environment, the dignity of these women would be maintained and desirable outcomes achieved.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported online in  We surveyed 150 community college students (51% female;  Participants with at risk and temporary statuses reported higher fear of deportation for self, fear of family members being deported, psychological distress, and higher self-esteem than those with stable status. Academic performance did not differ across immigration statuses. Within the temporary status, DACA students experienced higher anxiety, isolation, and alienation than other temporary status students. Fear of deportation for self and family members predicted depression and isolation and alienation. Both regression analyses controlled for age, sex, region of origin, hours of work, hours of sleep, and socializing per day. The study provides new insights into how immigration status influences the psychological well-being of community college students and introduces a quantifiable framework to better understand the construct of fear of deportation. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: While there is no single definition of the concept of recovery for people with mental illness, hope has been recognized as a guiding principle; the belief that it is possible for a person to regain a meaningful life, despite serious mental illness. Little is known about the recovery process of women diagnosed with schizophrenia per se, with only six studies offering the woman's voice identified and these all having taken place in developed countries. No studies on this topic have been carried out in Sub-Saharan Africa, including Swaziland. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study provides unique insight into what is important to Swazi women, diagnosed with schizophrenia, in their process of their recovery. Because of current trends in migration, the findings of this study may provide mental health professionals with a better understand of the needs of those from this particular Sub-Saharan country. The study discusses a range of issues affecting women including being labelled as mentally ill, stigma and discrimination, the importance of the sociocultural context of illness and positive attributes which promote women's recovery. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This study provides mental health practitioners with insights and understanding of the lives of women from a Sub-Saharan developing country. This will be helpful for better understanding of the context of mental illness both for practitioners supporting the development of services in such countries and for those working in Western countries with migrant populations. INTRODUCTION: Globally, twenty-four million people live with schizophrenia, 90% living in developing countries. While most Western cultures recognize service user expertise within the recovery process, this is not evident in developing countries. In particular, Swazi women diagnosed with schizophrenia experience stigma from family, community and care providers, thus compromising their recovery process. This study aimed to explore the experiences and meanings of recovery for Swazi women living with schizophrenia. Interpretive phenomenological analysis was used. Fifteen women were recruited from Swaziland National Psychiatric Hospital out-patients' department, and face-to-face interviews were conducted. Four super-ordinate themes were identified: (a) The emotionality of "illness of the brain"; (b) Pain! Living with the illness and with others; (c) She is mad just ignore her; and (d) Being better. Discussion focuses on the findings of this study and a number of positive and negative implications emanating from them: labelling, stigma and the roles of family, culture and religious beliefs on the process of recovery. This study provides practitioners with insight into the importance of the sociocultural context of the lives of women diagnosed with schizophrenia and how, in understanding this, mental health care could be improved.

Resuscitation Decision in Geriatric Patients: Different Views and Possible Decision-Making Aids 

The Transmission of Trauma and Guilt Feelings Between Generations 

Gynecomastia is a common condition that can be corrected with surgical excision of the breast tissue. Unlike the policies available for reduction mammaplasty in women, gynecomastia policies are variable and not based on strong scientific evidence. This study reviews U.S. insurance policies for coverage of gynecomastia surgery and compares these policies to the guidelines put forth by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Sixty U.S. insurance companies were selected based on their market share value. Medicare was also evaluated. The policy for each company was identified using a Web-based search or by contacting the company directly. Policies were reviewed to abstract coverage criteria. All information gathered was compared to national recommendations. Of the 61 companies evaluated, 38% did not have a well-defined policy for gynecomastia surgery and assessed each request on a case-by-case basis with no defined criteria. The remaining 62% of providers held a defined policy. Companies often required thorough documentation of breast size, body mass index, extent and duration of symptoms, and prior treatments, but requirements varied between insurers. Many of these policies were limited in their coverage, e.g. they would cover tissue excision but not liposuction. Fourteen companies would consider of coverage for patients younger than 18 years. Coverage of gynecomastia surgery varies across insurers. Insurance company considerations do not often align with patient concerns and physician recommendations on gynecomastia and its treatment options. Coverage criteria should be reevaluated and universally established, to expand access to care and improve treatment efficiency.

In the busy world of cardiovascular medicine, abstracts may be the only part of a publication that clinicians read. Therefore, it is critical for abstracts to accurately reflect article content. The extended CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) Statement for Abstracts was developed to ensure high abstract quality. However, it is unknown how often adherence to CONSORT guidelines occurs among cardiovascular journals. We searched MEDLINE for randomized controlled trials published in 3 major cardiovascular journals ( Circulation, Journal of the American College of Cardiology, and European Heart Journal) from 2011 to 2017. Post hoc, interim, and cost-effective analyses of randomized controlled trials were excluded. Two independent investigators extracted the data using a prespecified data collection form and a third investigator adjudicated the data. The primary outcome was frequency of subcategory adherence to CONSORT guidelines. A total of 478 abstracts were included in the analysis. Approximately half of the abstracts (53%; 255/478; 95% CI, 49%-57%) identified the article as randomized in the title. All abstracts detailed the interventions for both study groups (100%) and 81% (95% CI, 78%-85%) reported trial registration. Methodological quality reporting was relatively low: 9% (45/478; 95% CI, 6%-12%) described participant eligibility criteria with settings for data collection, 43% (204/478; 95% CI, 39%-47%) reported details of blinding, and <1% (4/478; 95% CI, 0%-2%) reported allocation concealment. Approximately 60% (301/478; 95% CI, 59%-67%) of the included abstracts provided primary outcome results while 55% (262/478; 95% CI, 51%-60%) reported harms or adverse effects. There is a high prevalence of nonadherence to CONSORT guidelines among leading cardiovascular journals. Efforts by editors, authors, and reviewers should be made to increase adherence and promote transparent and unbiased presentation of study results.

To determine the rate of subsequent publication of education exhibits solicited by RadioGraphics at the 2013 and 2014 Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) annual meetings in PubMed-indexed journals. The 2013 and 2014 RSNA meeting programs were reviewed, and all solicited education exhibits were recorded. The PubMed database was searched from 2013 to 2018 to identify peer-reviewed articles published in PubMed-indexed journals that were based upon 2013 and 2014 education exhibits. Of 2213 education exhibits at the 2013 meeting, 219 (9.9%) were solicited by RadioGraphics, of which 133 (60.7%) have been subsequently published in 25 PubMed-indexed journals. Of 2151 education exhibits at the 2014 meeting, 190 (8.8%) were solicited by RadioGraphics, of which 132 (69.5%) have been subsequently published in 24 PubMed-indexed journals. Among subsequently published education exhibits, most appeared in RadioGraphics for both the 2013 (n = 82; 61.2%) and 2014 (n = 101; 75.9%) meetings. Approximately 65% of education exhibits solicited by RadioGraphics from the 2013 and 2014 RSNA meetings were subsequently published in PubMed-indexed journals within 4-5 years of solicitation. More articles were published in RadioGraphics than in any other journal. These publication rates compare favorably to previously reported scientific abstract subsequent publication rates at major medical society meetings.

Para athletes reap significant health benefits from sport but are vulnerable to non-accidental harms. Little is known about the types and impacts of non-accidental harms Para athletes face. In this literature review, we summarise current knowledge and suggest priorities for future research related to non-accidental harms in Para athletes. Six electronic databases were searched between August and September 2017. 2245 articles were identified in the initial title/abstract review, and 202 records were selected for full-text review following preliminary screening. Two independent examiners evaluated each full text, and eight citations were selected based on inclusion/exclusion criteria. MEDLINE, Embase, PsycInfo, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Scopus and Academic Search Premier. Inclusion criteria: (A) human participants; (B) written in English; (C) descriptive, cohort and case series, case-control, qualitative, mixed methods studies and all clinical trials; and (D) data pertain to harassment/abuse of youth, recreational, collegiate, national-level and/or elite-level athletes with a physical and/or intellectual impairment. Most studies focused on young, visually impaired athletes and approximately half of all studies described high rates of bullying and its social implications. One study confirmed remarkably high rates of psychological, physical and sexual harms in Para athletes, compared with able-bodied peers. Bullying in young, visually impaired athletes is described most commonly in the available literature. Due to the limited amount of data, the prevalence of non-accidental harms in Para athletes remains unclear and information on trends over time is similarly unavailable.

The role of stigma on psychological wellness and treatment outcomes in people living with HIV (PLWH) has been well documented. However, within the context of the southern United States, the intersection between HIV-related stigma and social-ecological factors has been understudied. Thus, a results-based convergent, mixed synthesis design was used to examine the manifestations of HIV-related stigma in PLWH in the U.S. South. A literature search was conducted using PsycINFO, PubMed (includes MEDLINE), and CINAHL. The first level of screening by title and abstract was administered on 1,829 articles. A full-text screening of 169 studies was completed, and a total of 30 relevant articles were extracted. The mixed synthesis highlighted intervention strategies that can reduce HIV-related stigma while promoting positive health-behavior change. The findings of this review underscored the uniqueness of PLWH in the south and demonstrated the crucial role of intersectionality in investigating HIV-related stigma in treating and preventing HIV.

To evaluate the potential impact of intrapartum antibiotics, and their specific classes, on the infant gut microbiota in the first year of life. Prospective study of infants in the New Hampshire Birth Cohort Study (NHBCS). Rural New Hampshire, USA. Two hundred and sixty-six full-term infants from the NHBCS. Intrapartum antibiotic use during labour and delivery was abstracted from medical records. Faecal samples collected at 6 weeks and 1 year of age were characterised by 16S rRNA sequencing, and metagenomics analysis in a subset of samples. Maternal exposure to antibiotics during labour and delivery. Taxonomic and functional profiles of faecal samples. Infant exposure to intrapartum antibiotics, particularly to two or more antibiotic classes, was independently associated with lower microbial diversity scores as well as a unique bacterial community at 6 weeks (GUnifrac, P = 0.02). At 1 year, infants in the penicillin-only group had significantly lower α diversity scores than infants not exposed to intrapartum antibiotics. Within the first year of life, intrapartum exposure to penicillins was related to a significantly lower increase in several taxa including Bacteroides, use of cephalosporins was associated with a significantly lower rise over time in Bifidobacterium and infants in the multi-class group experienced a significantly higher increase in Veillonella dispar. Our findings suggest that intrapartum antibiotics alter the developmental trajectory of the infant gut microbiome, and specific antibiotic types may impact community composition, diversity and keystone immune training taxa. Class of intrapartum antibiotics administered during delivery relates to maturation of infant gut microbiota.

This article argues that the rise of bioethics in the post-WWII era and the emergence of the legal doctrine of informed consent in the late 1950s should have had a greater impact on patients with intersex traits (atypical sex development) than they did, given their emphasis on respect for autonomy and beneficence toward patients. Instead, these progressive trends collided with a turn in intersex management toward infants, who were unable to provide autonomous consent about their medical care. Patient autonomy took a back seat as parents heeded physicians' advice in an environment even more hierarchical than we know today. Intersex care of both infants and adults continues to need improvement. It remains an open question whether the abstract ideals of bioethics-respect, patient autonomy, and the requirement of informed consent-are alone adequate to secure that improvement, or whether legal actions (or the threat of litigation) or some other reforms will be required to effect such change.

This workshop report summarizes the presentations, the breakout session outcomes, and the speaker panel discussions from the PDA Biosimilars Workshop held September 27-28, 2018, in Washington, DC. This format was deliberately selected for the workshop with the expectation of delivering a post-workshop paper on current best practices and existing challenges for sponsors. The event, co-chaired by Dr. Stephan Krause (AstraZeneca Biologics) and Dr. Emanuela Lacana (CDER/FDA), was attended by 140 agency and industry representatives. The workshop was separated into three major sessions P1: Regulatory Perspective, P2: Challenges in Biosimilar Development, and P3: Demonstrating Analytical Similarity. Each of the three sessions started with agency and industry presentations. Participants then split into two concurrent roundtable discussion groups to hear the answers to questions that had been provided to all participants one week prior to the event. The sessions were recorded. This paper provides consolidated answers to specific case studies for current challenges to sponsors and agencies. In addition, the panel discussion notes following each breakout roundtable session, as well as brief talk summaries of all speakers, are provided. The first session explored the challenges encountered with submission of biosimilar marketing applications from the perspectives of regulatory agencies. Expectations for a successful submission of the chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (CMC) information were described. The second session addressed high-level technical challenges and how to avoid pitfalls frequently encountered during biosimilar candidate development, including data quality expectations, creation of the final control strategy, and strategic choices necessary for candidate selection and development. Both regulatory perspectives and industry experience were shared. The last session explored the use of statistical tools to provide meaningful contributions to the demonstration of analytical similarity. The presentations highlighted common issues and practical challenges that arise during the application of statistical tools.

Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) aims to replace nicotine from cigarettes to ease the transition from cigarette smoking to abstinence. It works by reducing the intensity of craving and withdrawal symptoms. Although there is clear evidence that NRT used after smoking cessation is effective, it is unclear whether higher doses, longer durations of treatment, or using NRT before cessation add to its effectiveness. To determine the effectiveness and safety of different forms, deliveries, doses, durations and schedules of NRT, for achieving long-term smoking cessation, compared to one another. We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group trials register, and trial registries for papers mentioning NRT in the title, abstract or keywords. Date of most recent search: April 2018. Randomized trials in people motivated to quit, comparing one type of NRT use with another. We excluded trials that did not assess cessation as an outcome, with follow-up less than six months, and with additional intervention components not matched between arms. Trials comparing NRT to control, and trials comparing NRT to other pharmacotherapies, are covered elsewhere. We followed standard Cochrane methods. Smoking abstinence was measured after at least six months, using the most rigorous definition available. We extracted data on cardiac adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), and study withdrawals due to treatment. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) and the 95% confidence interval (CI) for each outcome for each study, where possible. We grouped eligible studies according to the type of comparison. We carried out meta-analyses where appropriate, using a Mantel-Haenszel fixed-effect model. We identified 63 trials with 41,509 participants. Most recruited adults either from the community or from healthcare clinics. People enrolled in the studies typically smoked at least 15 cigarettes a day. We judged 24 of the 63 studies to be at high risk of bias, but restricting the analysis only to those studies at low or unclear risk of bias did not significantly alter results, apart from in the case of the preloading comparison. There is high-certainty evidence that combination NRT (fast-acting form + patch) results in higher long-term quit rates than single form (RR 1.25, 95% CI 1.15 to 1.36, 14 studies, 11,356 participants; I There is high-certainty evidence that using combination NRT versus single-form NRT, and 4 mg versus 2 mg nicotine gum, can increase the chances of successfully stopping smoking. For patch dose comparisons, evidence was of moderate certainty, due to imprecision. Twenty-one mg patches resulted in higher quit rates than 14 mg (24-hour) patches, and using 25 mg patches resulted in higher quit rates than using 15 mg (16-hour) patches, although in the latter case the CI included one. There was no clear evidence of superiority for 42/44 mg over 21/22 mg (24-hour) patches. Using a fast-acting form of NRT, such as gum or lozenge, resulted in similar quit rates to nicotine patches. There is moderate-certainty evidence that using NRT prior to quitting may improve quit rates versus using it from quit date only; however, further research is needed to ensure the robustness of this finding. Evidence for the comparative safety and tolerability of different types of NRT use is of low and very low certainty. New studies should ensure that AEs, SAEs and withdrawals due to treatment are both measured and reported.

To evaluate the impact of tort reform on defensive medicine, quality of care, and physician supply. Empirical, peer-reviewed English-language studies in the MEDLINE and HeinOnline databases that evaluated the association between tort reform and our study outcomes. We performed a systematic review in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines. Title and abstract screening was followed by full-text screening of relevant citations. We created evidence tables, grouped studies by outcome, and qualitatively compared the findings of included studies. We assigned a higher rating to study designs that controlled for unobservable sources of confounding. Thirty-seven studies met screening criteria. Caps on damages, collateral-source rule reform, and joint-and-several liability reform were the most common types of tort reform evaluated in the included studies. We found that caps on noneconomic damages were associated with a decrease in defensive medicine, increase in physician supply, and decrease in health care spending, but had no effect on quality of care. Other reform approaches did not have a clear or consistent impact on study outcomes. We conclude that traditional tort reform methods may not be sufficient for health reform and policy makers should evaluate and incorporate newer approaches.

The very recent US Supreme Court and Court of Appeals for Federal Circuit (CAFC) cases have dramatically changed the standard of patent eligibility. Several groundbreaking innovations were thus determined to be patent ineligible. The patent ineligibility would impact on the innovation s of the field of biomarkers, diagnostic methods and personalize cancer immunotherapy. To solve the thorny problem of eligibility, this study retrospectively analyzes all CAFC related cases and presents a flow chart determining patent eligibility based on the courts' decisions. Our analysis indicates the best way to avoid eligible rejection or invalidation is that an invention cannot fall within the categories of natural law, natural phenomenon or abstract idea. Thus, claiming non-natural cDNA, involving a step to grow a transformed cell or adding a means clause in a method claim would be some possible solutions. Moreover, based on the flow chart, even though a claim with substantive limitation but not well-understood, routine or conventional activities would be patent eligible; no one has successfully made the argument in the CAFC so far. We believe that this flow chart can serve as a set of guidelines for determining patent eligibility.

Although growing up in stressful conditions can undermine mental abilities, people in harsh environments may develop intact, or even enhanced, social and cognitive abilities for solving problems in high-adversity contexts (i.e. 'hidden talents'). We examine whether childhood and current exposure to violence are associated with memory (number of learning rounds needed to memorize relations between items) and reasoning performance (accuracy in deducing a novel relation) on transitive inference tasks involving both violence-relevant and violence-neutral social information (social dominance vs. chronological age). We hypothesized that individuals who had more exposure to violence would perform better than individuals with less exposure on the social dominance task. We tested this hypothesis in a preregistered study in 100 Dutch college students and 99 Dutch community participants. We found that more exposure to violence was associated with lower overall memory performance, but not with reasoning performance. However, the main effects of current (but not childhood) exposure to violence on memory were qualified by significant interaction effects. More current exposure to neighborhood violence was associated with worse memory for age relations, but not with memory for dominance relations. By contrast, more current personal involvement in violence was associated with better memory for dominance relations, but not with memory for age relations. These results suggest incomplete transfer of learning and memory abilities across contents. This pattern of results, which supports a combination of deficits and 'hidden talents,' is striking in relation to the broader developmental literature, which has nearly exclusively reported deficits in people from harsh conditions. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/e4ePmSzZsuc.

Vulnerability theory challenges the assumption that human beings are abstract and invulnerable liberal subjects and insists that any decent and just society must create law that takes into account and tries to ameliorate human vulnerability. In this article, I explore how vulnerability might apply in the context of the debate about the future of mental health law that has arisen since the entry into force of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) in 2008; namely, whether mental health law should be abolished or reformed. In doing so, this article addresses three key issues: (i) how to conceptualise vulnerability; (ii) whether persons with mental impairments really are vulnerable and in what ways; and (iii) how the law should respond to the vulnerability of persons with mental impairments post-CRPD. It describes and compares three different approaches with respect to how well they address vulnerability: the Abolition with Support, Mental Capacity with Support, and the Support Except Where There is Harm Models. It argues that the law should try to accurately capture and ameliorate the vulnerability of those who are subject to it as much as possible. It also argues that from a vulnerability perspective, the reform of mental health law may be better than its abolition and that decreasing the vulnerability of persons with mental impairment requires systemic reform, resources, and cultural change.

Children exposed to social adversity-hardship as a result of social circumstances such as poverty or intergenerational trauma-are at increased risk of poor outcomes across the life course. Understanding what promotes resilient outcomes is essential for the development of evidence informed intervention strategies. We conducted a systematic review to identify how child resilience is measured and what factors are associated with resilient outcomes. Systematic search conducted in CINAHL, MEDLINE and PsychInfo from January 2004 to October 2018 using the keywords 'resilien* and child* in the title or abstract. Eligible studies: (1) described children aged 5-12 years; (2) identified exposure to social adversity; (3) identified resilience; and (4) investigated factors associated with resilience. (1) approaches to identifying resilience and (2) factors associated with resilient outcomes. From 1979 studies retrieved, 30 studies met the inclusion criteria. Most studies were moderate to high quality, with low cultural competency. Social adversity exposures included poverty, parent loss, maltreatment and war. Only two studies used a measure of child resilience; neither was psychometrically validated. Remaining studies classified children as resilient if they showed positive outcomes (eg, mental health or academic achievement) despite adversity. A range of child, family, school and community factors were associated with resilient outcomes, with individual factors most commonly investigated. The best available evidence was for cognitive skills, emotion regulation, relationships with caregivers and academic engagement. While there is huge variation in the type and severity of adversity that children experience, there is some evidence that specific individual, relational and school factors are associated with resilient outcomes across a range of contexts. Such factors provide an important starting point for effective public health interventions to promote resilience and to prevent or ameliorate the immediate and long-term impacts of social adversity on children.

The objective of this study is to evaluate the relationship between suicidal ideation (SI), structural brain damage, and cognitive deficits in patients with penetrating traumatic brain injury (pTBI). Vietnam War veterans (n = 142) with pTBI to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) underwent combination of neuropsychological and psychiatric examinations and non-contrast CT brain scan. Patients were divided into SI positive (SI+) and SI negative (SI-) groups according to the SI item of the Beck Depression Inventory. Lesions to the left rostrolateral PFC (rlPFC) were associated with a lower risk of SI independent of depression and global functioning. Left rlPFC lesion also reduced abstract reasoning skills, which mediated the lesion effects on suicide ideation. The left rlPFC plays a crucial role in SI independently of depression and global functioning.

To identify and map existing postnatal educational interventions targeting parents in low and middle-income countries. A secondary objective is to conduct a critical analysis of the strengths and limitations of the educational strategies used for parent-targeted postnatal education. Design & data sources: Using scoping review methodology, MedLine, CINAHL, and SCOPUS were searched in October 2017. All studies published after 2000 reporting on educational interventions that targeted parents from the period of birth to 6 weeks postnatally in low and middle-income countries were included. Studies were excluded if they targeted healthcare professionals or were community interventions that spanned antenatal to postnatal care. Title, abstract and full-text screening was conducted by two reviewers. We initially identified 9284 articles with 77 articles included after title, abstract and full-text screening. Most of the studies were quantitative (94%) with over half published after 2014. Most studies (61%) targeted a single newborn care education intervention, of which 75% targeted breastfeeding. Interventions used on average three different methods of implementation (e.g., verbal, written information, counselling). Interventions were provided in the hospital (76%), at home (23%), at a clinic/hospital (8%), and/or virtually through an eHealth intervention, including phone or text messages (12%). Maternal outcomes primarily included knowledge, self-efficacy, anxiety and stress while newborn outcomes primarily included exclusive breastfeeding, weight gain at follow-up, and morbidities. Positive changes were found to occur for reported maternal outcomes (89%) and newborn outcomes (56%). Parent-targeted education varied in terms of educational topics covered, method and location of intervention, and outcomes examined. While the best strategies of implementing postnatal education interventions to parents in low and middle-income countries is yet to be determined, evidence suggests that current interventions had a positive impact on parents' outcomes using a combined approach. Further work is needed to evaluate the impact on newborn outcomes and to identify the most effective methods and timing of the interventions.

Public health surveillance is essential to inform programs that aim to eradicate child maltreatment (CM) and to provide services to children and families. However, collection of CM data imposes a burden on child welfare workers (CWWs). This study assesses the feasibility of hiring coders to abstract the required information from administrative records and case narratives. Based on a convenience sample of child welfare data from Manitoba, Canada, two coders abstracted information on 181 alleged CM cases. The coders completed a short web-based questionnaire for each case to identify which of five types of CM had been investigated, level of substantiation for each type, and risk of future CM. The CWWs responsible for each case completed the same questionnaire. Percentages of the occurrence of CM by the three sources were compared. The validity of the coders' classifications was assessed by calculating sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values, against the CWWs' classifications as the "gold standard." Cohen's kappa was also calculated. The coders' classifications of physical abuse, sexual abuse and neglect generally matched those of CWWs; for exposure to intimate partner violence, agreement was weak for one coder. Coding of emotional maltreatment and risk investigations could not be evaluated. Results were promising. Abstraction was not time-consuming. Differences between coders and CWWs can be largely explained by the administrative data system, child welfare practice, and legislation. Further investigation is required to determine if additional training could improve coders' classifications of CM.

In the past decades, economic sanctions imposed on Iran for its nuclear program. The embargo made difficulty in foreign trade and led to lack of timely access to medicines. As the internationally-led sanctions caused to the shortage of medicine there, healthcare systems need to applied the new policies for maintaining health service quality especially in pharmaceutical sector. This paper is about policies applied in Iran health system during the crisis reached its peak in 2012 as a good experience for guarantying access to pharmaceutical products. Through interviewing experts and managers in pharmaceutical regulatory system, the implemented policies in targeted historical period were extracted, then quantitative data were analyzed to show the impact of the policies on the access and affordability of medicines before and after their implementation in Iran food and drug administration (IFDA). This paper tries to show strategies employed by to tackle the crisis caused by sanctions and to offer practical policies to make medicines more accessible at the time of crisis. In order to reduce the harmful effects of this crisis, IFDA proposed some changes at different levels ranging from organizational procedures to parliament legislations. The main achievements of IFDA were making drugs easily available are as follows, significantly reducing prices, decreasing the share of market regarding the imported medicines, facilitating the manufacture of domestic medicines, encouraging foreign investment in manufacturing drugs domestically, controlling the shortage of drugs, and finally giving financial support to all patients in general and to those patients who had problem paying for drugs in particular. These experiences which made the Iran pharmaceutical sector survive during the international sanctions, can be considered as a good example of resilience strategies in similar situations. Graphical abstract IFDA policies to improve access to pharmaceutical products in sanction.

To investigate the burden and health service events surrounding severe maternal outcomes (SMO) related to life-threatening postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) in Nigerian public tertiary hospitals. Secondary analysis of a nationwide cross-sectional study. Forty-two tertiary hospitals. Women admitted for pregnancy, childbirth or puerperal complications. All cases of SMO [maternal near miss (MNM) or maternal death (MD)] due to PPH were prospectively identified using WHO criteria over a 1-year period. Incidence of SMO, health service events, case fatality rate (CFR) and mortality index (MI: % of death/SMO). Postpartum haemorrhage occurred in 2087 (2.2%) of the 94 835 deliveries recorded during the study period. A total of 354 (0.3%) women had an SMO (103 MD; 251 MNM). It was the most frequent obstetric haemorrhagic complication across hospitals. PPH had the highest maternal mortality ratio (112/100 000 live births) and the recorded MI (29.1%) and CFR (4.9%) were second only to that of ruptured uterus. About 83% of women with SMO were admitted in a critical condition with over 50% being referred. MD was more likely when PPH led to neurological (80.8%), renal (73.5%) or respiratory (58.7%) organ dysfunction. Although the timing of life-saving interventions was not statistically different between the cases of MD and MNM, close to one-quarter of women who died received critical intervention at least 4 hours after diagnosis of life-threatening PPH. Postpartum haemorrhage was a significant contributor to obstetric haemorrhage and SMO in Nigerian hospitals. Emergency obstetric services should be enhanced at the lower levels of healthcare delivery to reduce avoidable deaths from PPH. The original research that generated the data for this secondary analysis, and the publication of this secondary analysis, was funded by the UNDP/UNFPA/UNICEF/WHO/World Bank Special Programme of Research Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP), a cosponsored programme executed by the World Health Organization. We have no other funding issue to declare for our study. One hundred and three maternal deaths and 251 near-misses resulted from PPH in 42 Nigerian tertiary facilities in 1 year.

To evaluate the burden, causes and outcomes of severe non-obstetric maternal complications in Nigerian public tertiary hospitals. Secondary analysis of a nationwide cross-sectional study. Forty-two tertiary health facilities. Women admitted with complications during pregnancy, childbirth or puerperium. All cases of severe maternal outcome (SMO: maternal near-miss or maternal death) due to non-obstetric causes were prospectively identified over a 1-year period. Maternal near-miss was defined using organ-system dysfunction (WHO), clinical, or management-based criteria. Causes and contributions of non-obstetric complications to SMO; fetal and neonatal outcomes; health service events associated with non-obstetric complications; and mortality index (% of maternal death/SMO). Of 100 107 women admitted with complications, 9401 (9.4%) were for non-obstetric causes; and 4.0% (375/9401) suffered severe non-obstetric complications. Of the 375 cases of severe non-obstetric complications, 48.8% (183/375) were near-misses and 51.2% (192/375) were maternal deaths. Severe anaemia unrelated to haemorrhage contributed 61.2% of near-misses and 32.8% of maternal deaths. The highest mortality indices were observed for cancer (91.7%), hepatic diseases (81.8%) and HIV/AIDS/HIV wasting syndrome (80.4%). Fatality was significantly high with extremes of age and no formal education. Regarding organ dysfunctions, neurological (77.1%) and cardiovascular (75.0%) dysfunctions had the highest mortality indices. Perinatal mortality was 65.9%. Time from diagnosis of severe non-obstetric complications to review by senior medical personnel, and to definitive intervention was <30 minutes in 30.2% and 29.8% of women with SMO, respectively. However, over 240 minutes elapsed between diagnosis and definitive intervention in more than one-third of women with SMO. Non-obstetric complications are associated with poorer pregnancy outcomes and deserve attention similar to that accorded obstetric complications. The original research that generated the data for this secondary analysis and the publication of this secondary analysis were funded by the UNDP-UNFPA-UNICEF-WHO-World Bank Special Programme of Research, Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP), a co-sponsored programme executed by the World Health Organization (WHO). Non-obstetric causes are important contributors to maternal deaths and life-threatening morbidities in Nigerian hospitals.

The ability to tell one's past life story and to imagine one's personal future serves important social and life defining functions like maintaining identity. In the present study, 34 adolescents diagnosed with anxiety disorders (age 9-17) and 34 community based controls wrote stories about their weekend, their past and future life stories and generated cultural life scripts. Cultural life scripts are culturally shared assumptions as to the order and timing of important life events. Adolescents in the anxiety group had less coherent past and future life stories compared to controls. Anxious adolescents also remembered their pasts as emotionally more negative than community controls, despite the fact that both groups described equally many negative experiences from their pasts. Anxious adolescents imagined their futures to consist mainly of positive events, however, they still expected their futures to be less positive than the control group, and their future life stories were more abstract and included fewer cultural life script events than the control group. Weekend stories did not differ in emotional tone and coherence between groups, suggesting that differences in past and future life stories are not due to differences in general narrative ability.

In agriculture, the prevention and treatment of bacterial infections represents an increasing challenge. Traditional (chemical) methods have been restricted to ensure public health and to limit the occurrence of resistant strains. Bacteriophages could be a sustainable alternative. A major hurdle towards the commercial implementation of phage-based biocontrol strategies concerns aspects of regulation and intellectual property protection. Within this study, two datasets have been composed to analyze both scientific publications and patent documents and to get an idea on the focus of research and development (R&D) by means of an abstract and claim analysis. A total of 137 papers and 49 patent families were found from searching public databases, with their numbers increasing over time. Within this dataset, the majority of the patent documents were filed by non-profit organizations in Asia. There seems to be a good correlation between the papers and patent documents in terms of targeted bacterial genera. Furthermore, granted patents seem to claim rather broad and cover methods of treatment. This review shows that there is indeed growing publishing and patenting activity concerning phage biocontrol. Targeted research is needed to further stimulate the exploration of phages within integrated pest management strategies and to deal with bacterial infections in crop production.

In 2005, US water intake recommendations were based on analyses of Nutrition Healthand Examination Surveys (NHANES) III data that examined if hydration classification varied bywater intake and estimated the median water intake associated with hydration in persons aged 19⁻30. Given the upcoming 2020⁻2025 Dietary Guidelines review, this analysis addresses the same twoaims with the 2009⁻2012 NHANES data. Methods were updated by defining hydration criteria interms of multiple measures (serum sodium 135⁻144 mmol/L and urine osmolality < 500 mmol/kg),expressing water intake as ml/kg, distinguishing plain water intake (PWI) from total water intake(TWI), using weighted age- and sex-specific multivariable models to control for determinants ofwater intake requirements, and selecting two study samples (non-acutely ill US population and asub-group without selected chronic disease risk factors). In the US population and sub-group, therelative risk (RR) of meeting the hydration criteria was significantly greater for individuals withTWI ≥ 45 mL/kg or PWI ≥ 20 mL/kg (for the US population 19⁻50 years of age: adjusted RR (RRrepresents Relative Risk, which is a very standard term that probably does not need to be spelledout) = 1.36, 95% CI: 1.10⁻1.68 for males; adjusted RR = 1.70, 95% CI: 1.49⁻1.95 for females. For thesub-group 51⁻70 years of age: adjusted RR = 2.20, 95% CI: 1.15⁻4.18 for males; adjusted RR = 2.00,95% CI: 1.18⁻3.40 for females). The median (SE, which stands for Standard Error, which is also verywell known. Up to you if your journal prefers to spell it out in the abstract) TWI and PWI associatedwith meeting the hydration criteria for males and females 19⁻50 years of age were 42 (2) mL/kg and14 (1) mL/kg and 43 (2) mL/kg and 16 (1) mL/kg, respectively. The significant association betweenwater intake and hydration classification differs from the null association, underlying the 2005 waterintake recommendations, and may lead to different reasoning and inferences for the 2020⁻2025Dietary Guidelines.

An estimated 30% of women worldwide experience intimate partner violence (IPV) during their lifetime. Exposure to IPV is associated with poor health outcomes and the prevalence of violence may be higher amongst women seeking healthcare. Existing evidence from the Arab region is limited. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence and health outcomes of domestic violence (IPV or violence from a family member) in clinical populations in Arab countries. Using terms related to domestic violence, Arab countries, and date limit > year 2000, we searched seven databases: Medline, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Web of Science: core collection, IBSS, Westlaw, IMEMR. We included observational studies reporting estimates of prevalence or health outcomes of domestic violence amongst women aged > 15 years, recruited while accessing healthcare in Arab countries. Studies that collected data on/after 1st January 2000 and were published in English, Arabic or French were included. Title/abstract screening, full text screening, quality assessment and data extraction were carried out. Extracted data were summarised and meta-analysis was performed where appropriate. 6341 papers were screened and 41 papers (29 studies) met inclusion criteria. Total 19,101 participants from 10 countries were represented in the data. Meta-analysis produced pooled prevalence estimates of lifetime exposure to any type of IPV of 73·3% (95% CI 64·1-81·6), physical IPV 35·6% (95% CI 24·4-47·5), sexual IPV 22% (95% CI 13·3-32) and emotional/psychological IPV 49·8% (95% CI 37·3-62·3). Domestic violence (IPV or family violence) exposure was associated with increased odds of adverse health outcomes: depression OR 3·3 (95% CI 1·7-6·4), sleep problems OR 3·2 (95% CI 1·5-6·8), abortion OR 3·5 (95% CI 1·2-10·2), pain OR 2·6 (95% CI 1·6-4·1) and hypertension OR 1·6 (95% CI 1·2-2·0). Domestic violence is common amongst women seeking healthcare in Arab countries. Exposure to domestic violence is associated with several poor health outcomes. Further research into domestic violence in the Arab world is required. Systematic review protocol was registered on PROSPERO: CRD42017071415 .

The purpose of this review is to uncover some best practices for increasing access to physical activity opportunities by examining efforts used within low income and diverse communities. The theoretical lens used is from the Active Living by Design (ALbD) Community Action Model, with a focus on the 6 essential practices (health equity focus, community engagement, facilitative leadership, sustainable thinking, culture of learning, and strategic communication) describing how partnerships can guide and sustain meaningful change in a community. A 2-step process guided the literature search. In step 1, 4 databases (PubMed, Psych INFO, Social Science Citation Index, and Cochrane Library) were searched using Boolean connections and variations in the key terms. Step 2 assessed articles by title, abstract, and full text to determine whether the studies met the inclusion and exclusion criteria guided by Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. Additionally, included articles were compared against the 6 essential practices outlined by the ecological framework, ALbD. Of 1775 total articles, 14 studies met inclusion criteria. Most of the studies were case studies located in the United States using several different approaches including, changes in the built environment, implementation of a community-based physical activity program, creating partnerships to leverage resources, and policy change. This review compared the 14 studies against the 6 essential practices of the ALbD model and found 2 studies that met all 6 criteria, and only a few studies meeting more than 2 criteria. Overall, the conclusions are 2-fold, (1) only 14 cases demonstrate success in increasing access to physical activity opportunities, suggesting that more can be done to address inequalities. (2) Of the existing efforts, few utilize crucial components to create a sustainable change in the community. Future research should take into consideration the ALbD ecological framework, the best existing theory for this type of work, to guide the creation and implementation of a sustainable community access effort.

The question of whether free will actually exists has been debated in philosophy for centuries. However, how belief in free will shapes the perception of our social environment still remains open. Here we investigate whether belief in free will affects how much intentionality we attribute to other people. Study 1a and 1b demonstrate a weak positive relation between the strength of belief in free will and the perceived intentionality of soccer players committing handball. This pattern even holds for behavior that is objectively not intentional (i.e., when the player touches the ball accidentally). Going one step further, in Study 2 we find a weak correlation between belief in free will and perceiving intentions in very abstract geometrical shapes. These findings suggest that whether individuals believe in free will or not changes the way they interpret others' behavior, which may have important societal consequences.

This mixed methods systematic review and meta-analysis sheds more light on the role parenting practices play in children's adjustment after war exposure. Specifically, we quantitatively examined whether parenting behavior explained some of the well-known associations between war exposure and children's adjustment. In addition, we meta-synthesized qualitative evidence answering when and why parenting practices might change for war-affected families. We searched nine electronic databases and contacted experts in the field for relevant studies published until March 2018, identifying 4,147 unique publications that were further screened by title and abstract, resulting in 158 publications being fully screened. By running a meta-analytic structural equation model with 38 quantitative studies (

Mental illness and HIV remain prevalent as chronic and stigmatised conditions and a global public health concern. Disability-adjusted life-years due to comorbid neuropsychiatric conditions and HIV are rising. Occupational justice and social inclusion emphasise the importance of equity and the utility of resources and opportunities for all to engage in diverse, healthy and meaningful activities. However, succinct conceptualisation of social inclusion and occupational justice, including the relationship between these concepts is still limited. This hampers their effective utilisation in research and practice. Here, we present our scoping review protocol to appraise literature to describe and explain the state of conceptualisation of occupational justice and social inclusion in relation to mental illness and HIV. We are aiming to review the definitions, current utilisation and relationships between occupational justice and social inclusion to inform further theorisation and practice application. This scoping review protocol follows existing guidelines for scoping reviews in occupational therapy with particular attention on Arksey and O'Malley's (2005) scoping review framework. We iteratively developed a search strategy and carried out our search using the following databases: PubMed, Scopus, Academic Search Premier, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Africa-Wide Information, Humanities International Complete, Web of Science, PsychInfo and SocINDEX. To enhance the comprehensiveness of our search and capture all relevant information, we will also search a variety of grey literature sources. Two reviewers will independently screen eligible studies for inclusion. Bibliographic data, abstract content and aspects of the study design and findings will be extracted and thematically analysed. As secondary analysis, this scoping review does not require ethics approval. Results will summarise and disseminate existing research related to occupational justice and social inclusion in mental health and HIV/AIDS care, describing the conceptualisation, relationships between concepts and identifying gaps for further research and practical application. We will disseminate the results through peer-reviewed journals and conferences, targeting clinicians, academics, researchers and policy makers.

Evidence suggests that black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) groups have an increased risk of involuntary psychiatric care. However, to our knowledge, there is no published meta-analysis that brings together both international and UK literature and allows for comparison of the two. This study examined compulsory detention in BAME and migrant groups in the UK and internationally, and aimed to expand upon existing systematic reviews and meta-analyses of the rates of detention for BAME populations. For this systematic review and meta-analysis, we searched five databases (PsychINFO, MEDLINE, Cochrane Controlled Register of Trials, Embase, and CINAHL) for quantitative studies comparing involuntary admission, readmission, and inpatient bed days between BAME or migrant groups and majority or native groups, published between inception and Dec 3, 2018. We extracted data on study characteristics, patient-level data on diagnosis, age, sex, ethnicity, marital status, and occupational status, and our outcomes of interest (involuntary admission to hospital, readmission to hospital, and inpatient bed days) for meta-analysis. We used a random-effects model to compare disparate outcome measures. We assessed explanations offered for the differences between minority and majority groups for the strength of the evidence supporting them. This study is prospectively registered with PROSPERO, number CRD42017078137. Our search identified 9511 studies for title and abstract screening, from which we identified 296 potentially relevant full-text articles. Of these, 67 met the inclusion criteria and were reviewed in depth. We added four studies after reference and citation searches, meaning 71 studies in total were included. 1 953 135 participants were included in the studies. Black Caribbean patients were significantly more likely to be compulsorily admitted to hospital compared with those in white ethnic groups (odds ratio 2·53, 95% CI 2·03-3·16, p<0·0001). Black African patients also had significantly increased odds of being compulsorily admitted to hospital compared with white ethnic groups (2·27, 1·62-3·19, p<0·0001), as did, to a lesser extent, south Asian patients (1·33, 1·07-1·65, p=0·0091). Black Caribbean patients were also significantly more likely to be readmitted to hospital compared with white ethnic groups (2·30, 1·22-4·34, p=0·0102). Migrant groups were significantly more likely to be compulsorily admitted to hospital compared with native groups (1·50, 1·21-1·87, p=0·0003). The most common explanations for the increased risk of detainment in BAME populations included increased prevalence of psychosis, increased perceived risk of violence, increased police contact, absence of or mistrust of general practitioners, and ethnic disadvantages. BAME and migrant groups are at a greater risk of psychiatric detention than are majority groups, although there is variation across ethnic groups. Attempts to explain increased detention in ethnic groups should avoid amalgamation and instead carry out culturally-specific, hypothesis-driven studies to examine the numerous contributors to varying rates of detention. University College London Hospitals National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre, NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust, King's College London, and NIHR Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care North Thames at Bart's Health NHS Trust.

The Role of the Medical Profession in Euthanasia, Particularly in the Prescription of Sodium Pentobarbital Abstract. The delivery of sodium pentobarbital as part of assisted suicide requires a doctor's prescription. This prescription must meet the legal and professional requirements as well as the corresponding ethical guidelines. Current legal practice restrictively permits suicide assistance in this form, especially in the case of patients who are willing to die and whose death is foreseeable. The new guidelines of the SAMS (2018) extend the possibility to patients who suffer intolerably due to disease symptoms and/or functional restrictions. The prescription of NaP in other cases or in violation of the duty of care provided for in the guidelines may result in supervisory, professional and criminal consequences. Suicide assistance itself is a decision of conscience, not a medical task, which is why there is no entitlement to it.

Federal Supreme Court Decisions in Medical Law (2000-2017) - Overview and Selected Case Reports Abstract. Within the framework of an empirical and casuistic analysis of Federal Court decisions in medical law between 2000 and 2017, the goal was to describe tendencies and patterns of Federal Court decisions in medical law. Among other things, our results show that specialists in internal medicine, psychiatry, gynecology, obstetrics and surgery are more frequently involved in federal court proceedings. By contrast, pathologists, forensic specialists or (diagnostic) radiologists are rarely represented. This may be explained by the fact that the first group consists of more physicians than the other specialties. Furthermore, in the first group, either stronger action may be taken against the will of the patient (e.g. in the context of compulsory medication in psychiatry) or a possible breach of the duty of care is more obvious for the patient or his relatives or at least recognizable even without medical knowledge.

IT Outsourcing and Medical Secrecy Abstract. When medical practices outsource IT work, the requirements of data protection laws and professional secrecy in particular must be taken into account. In terms of data protection laws, outsourcing to third parties requires, among other things, that an agreement is concluded, and that the outsourcing provider only processes the data in the way that the doctor himself is permitted to do. Furthermore, outsourcing must not be prohibited by a legal or contractual obligation to maintain secrecy, such as medical professional secrecy. Professional secrecy has been widely discussed in recent years in connection with the outsourcing of services by physicians. Despite other restrictive positions, however, IT outsourcing should continue to be regarded as permissible if it can be justified on objective grounds, if it remains within the scope of what is customary and necessary for physicians and if appropriate measures are taken to avoid disclosure of personal data.

Stigma may strain the heart health of lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) individuals. To date, however, LGB-related differences in cardiovascular diagnosis, risk factors, and basal biomarkers are inconsistently reported. Using a laboratory-based stress paradigm, the current study assessed whether cardiovascular stress reactivity differs as a function of sexual orientation and disclosure status ("coming out") in a sample of healthy young LGB and heterosexual adults. Eighty-seven participants aged 18-45 (M = 24.61 ± 0.61 SE) identifying as LGB and heterosexual (47%) were exposed to the Trier Social Stress Test, a well-validated laboratory stressor involving public speaking and mental arithmetic. Throughout a two-hour session, ambulatory recordings for heart rate and blood pressure were collected. Self-report questionnaires were also administered to assess psychosocial and demographic variables. Gay/bisexual men showed higher heart rate and lesbian/bisexual women showed marginally higher mean arterial blood pressure in response to a stressor, compared to sex- and age-matched heterosexuals. No significant differences emerged when comparing LGB individuals who had completely disclosed and those that had not completely disclosed their sexual orientation to family and friends. Compared to heterosexuals, heart rate is higher among gay/bisexual men and blood pressure is marginally higher among lesbian/bisexual women when exposed to a laboratory-based stressor. These preliminary findings contribute to small literature on sexual orientation differences in stress reactive biomarkers that requires further exploration. Lay abstract In response to stress exposure in a laboratory, gay/bisexual men showed higher heart rate than heterosexual men. By contrast, lesbian/bisexual showed a non-significant tendency towards higher blood pressure than heterosexual women. These preliminary findings suggest that the heart health of LGB individuals might be strained by stigma exposure.

: media-1vid110.1542/5972298231001PEDS-VA_2018-1171 Individual-level data from the National Vital Statistics System were merged with household-level data from the General Social Survey to create national-level estimates of firearm-related child mortality and family firearm ownership from 1976 to 2016 ( The proportion of non-Hispanic white families with young children who owned firearms declined from 50% in 1976 to 45% in 2016 and from 38% to 6% among non-Hispanic African American families. The proportion of white families with young children who owned handguns, however, increased from 25% to 32%; 72% of firearm-owning families with young children now own a handgun. Increases in handgun ownership partially explained the recent rise in firearm-related white child mortality ( Changes in the types of firearms in the homes of US families may partially explain recently rising firearm-related mortality among young white children. These findings hold relevance for pediatricians and policy makers aiming to reduce firearm-related mortality and promote firearm safety in children's homes.

Inflicted blunt force trauma and/or repetitive acceleration-deceleration trauma in infants can cause brain injury. Yet, the exact pathophysiologic mechanism with its associated thresholds remains unclear. In this systematic review an overview of animal models for shaking trauma and their findings on tissue damage will be provided. A systematic review was performed in MEDLINE and Scopus for articles on the simulation of inflicted head injury in animals. After collection, the studies were independently screened by two researchers for title, abstract, and finally full text and on methodological quality. A total of 12 articles were included after full-text screening. Three articles were based on a single study population of 13 lambs, by one research group. The other 9 articles were separate studies in piglets, all by a single second research group. The lamb articles give some information on tissue damage after inflicted head injury. The piglet studies only provide information on consequences of a single plane rotational movement. Generally, with increasing age and weight, there was a decrease of axonal injury and death. Future studies should focus on every single step in the process of a free movement in all directions, resembling human infant shaking. In part II of this systematic review biomechanical models will be evaluated.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: In the nursing perspective of Roy's adaptation model, to be adapted means to have positive interactions with one's environment. The ability to use effective coping strategies is an essential ingredient of mental health recovery. However, coping difficulties are often a problem for people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder, especially those who have inadequate social support. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: "Filters in the coping process" is a grounded theory of coping in people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder. A filter effect impairs their ability and limits their opportunities to use effective coping strategies. These filters are as follows: to have been helped, to understand in one's own way, to act despite limited freedom and to modulate the process of self-disclosure. "Surface coping" is the product of the effect of these filters on coping attempts and possibilities. It does not reflect the person's real potential. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: By offering an alternative, holistic nursing perspective, the filter model provides the nurse with factors to consider when assessing clients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder, so as to plan interventions towards improving their coping capacity. By allowing for the presence of surface coping, the nurse will have less tendency to form negative judgments about clients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder. ABSTRACT: Introduction Numerous studies confirm the coping difficulties of people diagnosed with schizophrenia spectrum disorder, especially those with limited social support. Further, the coping process is itself poorly understood. Aim Starting from a conceptualization of the adaptation of Roy's model, the aim of this study was to describe the coping process of people with schizophrenia spectrum disorder in the context of an inadequate social support. Method A constructivist grounded theorization was performed with a sample of 30 persons with schizophrenia spectrum disorder. Results The results are a model named: "Filters in the coping process of people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder who have inadequate social support." The type of coping strategies used evolves over time and in accordance with the filters. The consequence of the process is "surface coping." Discussion The coping potential of people with schizophrenia spectrum disorder is affected by environmental factors as well as factors inherent to the disorder itself. The filter model provides a holistic perspective, as opposed to merely focusing on behaviours. Implication for practice The findings of this study could improve nursing interventions through a better understanding of impediments to coping: what they are, how they arise and the nature of their effects.

Educators are challenged to meet the needs of all student learning styles. Nursing educators care deeply about student perceptions, but understand the need for critical thinking in student learning outcomes. The need for mental health nursing care touches every nursing specialty. The concepts are abstract and complex, with many unknowns concerning the mind. The flipped classroom (FC) provides an opportunity for students to explore the concepts prior to classroom learning. This article describes an initiative to integrate an FC approach with a population of baccalaureate nursing students over the course of five semesters.

Hirschsprung disease is a rare congenital disease typically requiring surgical treatment during childhood. Quality of life and social condition at adult age can be impaired by disease-specific sequelae. This study aimed to assess the quality of life and social outcome of adult patients operated on for Hirschsprung disease during childhood. Patients operated on for Hirschsprung disease during childhood were identified and specific questionnaires were sent to them. Data from 2 referral centers were used. Patients who completed the questionnaires regarding quality of life and social condition were included. The Hirschsprung's Disease and Anorectal Malformations Quality of Life disease-specific questionnaire (8 dimensions explored; each scored from 0 to 100 maximum score) and a sociodemographic questionnaire were sent to identified patients. Sociodemographic data were compared with those of the French general population. Thirty-four patients had Hirschsprung disease (men, 76%; mean age, 32 years) were included in the study. Mean total Hirschsprung's Disease and Anorectal Malformations Quality of Life score was 611 of 800 (maximum score 800). The 2 most impaired dimensions were "physical symptoms" and "diarrhea" (62.9/100 and 73.6/100). Fecal continence was only marginally affected (mean score, 89/100). Patients with Hirschsprung disease achieved better educational levels than the French general population. Parental and marital status did not differ between the 2 groups. This study had the limitations inherent to a retrospective study. The quality of life of adult patients with Hirschsprung disease sequelae is marginally impaired in this study. Despite the consequences of this congenital abnormality, the condition eventually achieved can be considered as satisfactory. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A917.

Patient- and family-centered care (PFCC) is increasingly linked to improved communication, care quality, and patient decision making. However, in order to consistently implement and study PFCC, health care systems and researchers need a solid evidentiary base. Most current definitions and models of PFCC are broad and conceptual, and difficult to translate into measurable behaviors and actions. This paper provides a brief overview of all actions that focus group respondents associated with PFCC in ambulatory (outpatient) care settings and then explores actions associated with the concept of "dignity and respect" in greater detail. We conducted nine focus groups with patients, family members, and physicians in three metropolitan regions across the United States. Group discussions were transcribed and analyzed using a thematic analysis approach. We identified 14 domains and 47 specific actions that patients, family members, and physicians associate with PFCC. In addition to providing a detailed matrix of these domains and actions, this paper details the actions associated with the "dignity and respect" concept. Key domains identified under "dignity and respect" include: 1) building relationships, 2) providing individualized care, and 3) respecting patients' time. Within these domains we identified specific actions that break down these abstract ideas into explicit and measurable units such as taking time, listening, including family, and minimizing wait times. We identified 9, 6, and 3 specific actions associated, respectively, with building relationships, providing individualized care, and respecting patients' time. Our work fills a critical gap in our ability to understand and measure PFCC in ambulatory care settings by breaking down abstract concepts about PFCC into specific measurable actions. Our findings can be used to support research on how PFCC affects clinical outcomes and develop innovative tools and policies to support PFCC.

Introduction: Investigation of many types of crimes is accompanied by the involvement of health care workers. They, with the help of their special skills in the sphere of medicine, assist the investigator in identification, fixation and caption of evidence. Health care workers take part in many investigative procedures, carry out forensic, psychiatric and other kinds of examinations. The aim: To reveal modern forms of using medical knowledge during the crime investigation. Materials and methods: The abstract is based on the teachings of scholars of forensic physicians, criminologists, the results of our survey of investigators and forensic experts, the results of our generalization of criminal proceedings regarding the investigation of murders, normative and legal acts of Ukraine and other sources. The system of scientific knowledge methods: historical, statistical, questionnaires, generalizations and others, was used during the research. Review: Our research reveals the following forms of using medical knowledge during crime investigation. This is the participation of physicians as specialists in investigative procedures, like the review of the scene, interrogation, investigation experiment, examination, participation in the selection of biological samples for carrying out expert examinations, physicians' assistance in the form of the recreation of the deceased person's face with a view of its identification, also the consultations of physicians - cardiologists, traumatologists, surgeons, forensic experts, etc., carrying out of forensic and forensic and psychiatric examinations, use of medical knowledge in the form of molecular genome research with the view of person's identification. The argumentative issues on the interaction between the investigator and the physician during the review of the scene, interrogation and other investigative procedures, implementation of molecular genome research and certain issues arising in the appointment of forensic and forensic psychiatric examinations are reviewed in the abstract. Conclusions: The use of medical knowledge is necessary for investigation of many types of crimes. The forms of using medical knowledge in the crime investigations such as the participation of physicians as specialists in the carrying out of investigative procedures, the physicians' assistance in the form of the recreation of the deceased person's face with a view to its identification and physicians' consultations are widely spread nowadays. The conduct of forensic, medical and forensic and forensic psychiatric examinations is the most widespread. The use of medical knowledge in the form of genotyposcopic and molecular genome research carried out in order to identify a person during the crime investigations is popular nowadays.

The purpose of this evidence-based review is to identify and describe the interventions that have been implemented to reduce waiting times for major elective surgery. Scoping review and presentation of the results according to the SUPPORT tools. We searched MEDLINE/PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, SciELO, DARE-HTA, and Google Scholar. The inclusion criteria for research design were comprehensive. We identified 5200 records. After eliminating duplicates and screening by title and abstract, 171 records remained for full-text assessment, of which 12 were ultimately included for this review because they reported specific interventions and 96 records were included for further reference. The included studies show significant variability regarding elective procedures, population, and type of provider, as well as in the characteristics of the interventions and the settings. All the studies had methodological limitations. We graded the certainty of the evidence as very low. According to the evidence found for this review, interventions most likely should be multidimensional, with prioritization strategies on the waiting lists to incorporate equity criteria, together with quality management improvements of the surgical pathways and the use of operating rooms, as well as improvements in the planning of the surgical schedule.

Overprescribing of antibiotics and injectable medicines is common in ambulatory care in many low- and middleincome countries. We evaluated the effects of three different interventions in improving physician prescribing. We conducted a four-armed randomized controlled trial with one-month and three- months follow-up. General physicians, pediatricians, and infectious disease specialists were included in this study if they had an outpatient office in Tehran, Iran. The study involved two behaviorally guided interventions: "new-design audit and feedback (NA&F)"; "printed educational material (PEM)" and an existing intervention of "routinely conducted audit and feedback (RA&F)". The theoretical framework underpinning the intervention was the theory of planned behavior. Main outcome measures were the percentage change in the proportion of prescriptions containing injectable dexamethasone; oral amoxicillin and cefixime. NA&F reduced the proportion of prescriptions particularly those containing dexamethasone injectable and cefixime (1.64, 0.99 absolute percentage change, p = 0.006, p = 0.01 respectively). PEM reduced the proportion of prescriptions containing cefixime (0.93 absolute percentage change p = 0.04). Other primary outcomes had no significant differences. A secondary outcome measure showed overall prescribing of injectables also reduced (absolute risk reduction: 3%). Overally, the study provides strong evidence that using theoretical insights in the development of the intervention improved prescribing behavior that lasted at least three months after the intervention. The design, format, and presentation of messages in feedback forms significantly influence the impact of audit and feedback on physician prescribing. While the interventions were effective, the impacts on inappropriate prescribing were modest and limited. In settings with rampant problems of overprescribing, intensive interventions are required to substantially improve prescribing patterns. Graphical abstract Graphical abstract.

Every year, suicide accounts for nearly 800 000 deaths worldwide. Appropriate risk assessment and intervention are imperative since evidence demonstrates that a large proportion of those who die by suicide visit health professionals prior to their death. Much previous research has focused on identifying patient-level risk factors that can improve the risk assessment process through scales and algorithms. However, the best practice guidelines emphasise the importance of clinical interviews and prioritise the clinician's final judgement. The purpose of this review is to (1) understand the clinician and organisational level barriers and facilitators that influence a clinician's assessment of suicide risk, (2) identify the types of biases that exist within this process and (3) list any evidence-based training protocols and educational initiatives to aid (or support) clinicians with this process. This scoping review protocol uses the Arksey and O'Malley framework, and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses reporting guidelines for scoping reviews. Literature will be identified using a multidatabase search strategy developed in consultation with a medical librarian. The proposed screening process consists of a title and abstract scan, followed by a full-text review by two reviewers to determine the eligibility of articles. Studies outlining any factors that affect a clinician's suicide risk assessment process, ranging from individual experience and behaviours to organisational level influences, will be included. A tabular synthesis of the general study details will be provided, as well as a narrative synthesis of the extracted data, organised into themes using the Situated Clinical Decision-Making framework. Ethical approval is not required for this review. Results will be translated into educational materials and presentations for dissemination to appropriate knowledge users. Knowledge outputs will also include academic presentations at relevant conferences, and a published, peer-reviewed journal article.

This systematic review of contemporary literature sought to better understand racial and ethnic minority patients' shared decision-making (SDM) preferences, challenges and facilitators. Data sources were PubMed, CINAHL, Embase, Google Scholar, PsycINFO, Sociological Abstracts, and Web of Science databases for publications between 2011 and 2016. Publications were included if they studied SDM during the clinical encounter for minority adults in clinical care in the United States. We conducted a narrative, descriptive synthesis of each study. From over 5000 publications identified through the search strategy, 18 met eligibility criteria following an abstract and full text (n = 685) review in Covidence. Studies focused on SDM in developing treatment plans (n = 10), and were conducted in primary care (n = 6) or hospital/health system settings (n = 6). Patients' decision preferences ranged from physician-driven altogether or initially, to patient-driven style. A comprehensive list of SDM facilitators and barriers was developed. Despite strong policy and research SDM support to increase patient communication and a growing published literature, results suggest lack of representation of minority populations in contemporary literature. Provider training may be needed to facilitate patient-provider transition from a passive toward a more active SDM engagement over time while confidence, trust and rapport is established.

To evaluate factors affecting unselected population-based BRCA testing in Ashkenazi Jews (AJ). Cohort-study set within recruitment to the GCaPPS trial (ISRCTN73338115). North London AJ population. Ashkenazi Jews women/men >18 years, recruited through self-referral. Ashkenazi Jews women/men underwent pre-test counselling for BRCA testing through recruitment clinics (clusters). Consenting individuals provided blood samples for BRCA testing. Data were collected on socio-demographic/family history/knowledge/psychological well-being along with benefits/risks/cultural influences (18-item questionnaire measuring 'attitude'). Four-item Likert-scales analysed initial 'interest' and 'intention-to-test' pre-counselling. Uni- and multivariable logistic regression models evaluated factors affecting uptake/interest/intention to undergo BRCA testing. Statistical inference was based on cluster robust standard errors and joint Wald tests for significance. Item-Response Theory and graded-response models modelled responses to 18-item questionnaire. Interest, intention, uptake, attitude towards BRCA testing. A total of 935 individuals (women = 67%/men = 33%; mean age = 53.8 (SD = 15.02) years) underwent pre-test genetic-counselling. During the pre-counselling, 96% expressed interest in and 60% indicated a clear intention to undergo BRCA testing. Subsequently, 88% opted for BRCA testing. BRCA-related knowledge (P = 0.013) and degree-level education (P = 0.01) were positively and negatively (respectively) associated with intention-to-test. Being married/cohabiting had four-fold higher odds for BRCA testing uptake (P = 0.009). Perceived benefits were associated with higher pre-counselling odds for interest in and intention to undergo BRCA testing. Reduced uncertainty/reassurance were the most important factors contributing to decision-making. Increased importance/concern towards risks/limitations (confidentiality/insurance/emotional impact/inability to prevent cancer/marriage ability/ethnic focus/stigmatisation) were significantly associated with lower odds of uptake of BRCA testing, and discriminated between acceptors and decliners. Male gender/degree-level education (P = 0.001) had weaker correlations, whereas having children showed stronger (P = 0.005) associations with attitudes towards BRCA testing. BRCA testing in the AJ population has high acceptability. Pre-test counselling increases awareness of disadvantages/limitations of BRCA testing, influencing final cost-benefit perception and decision-making on undergoing testing. BRCA testing in Ashkenazi Jews has high acceptability and uptake. Pre-test counselling facilitates informed decision-making.

: media-1vid110.1542/5985300176001PEDS-VA_2018-2303 Teen mothers were recruited from a teen-tot clinic with integrated medical care and social services. Participants were randomly assigned 1:1 to receive (1) teen-tot services plus 5 interactive parenting and life skills modules adapted from the Nurturing and Ansell-Casey Life Skills curricula, delivered by a nurse and social worker over the infant's first 15 months or (2) teen-tot services alone. A computerized questionnaire was self-administered at intake, 12, 24, and 36 months. Outcomes included maternal self-esteem, parenting attitudes associated with child maltreatment risk, maternal depression, life skills, and repeat pregnancy over a 36-month follow-up. We used generalized linear mixed modeling and logistic regression to examine intervention effects. Of 152 invited, 140 (92%) participated (intervention = 72; control = 68). At 36 months, maternal self-esteem was higher in the intervention group compared with controls ( A brief parenting and/or life skills intervention paired with medical care for teens and their children has positive effects on maternal self-esteem and repeat pregnancy over 36 months.

: media-1vid110.1542/5984244876001PEDS-VA_2017-4211 A total of 895 218 students (10-18 years old) completed the cross-sectional California Healthy Kids Survey from 2013 to 2015. Surveys were administered in 2641 middle and high schools throughout California. Primary outcome measures included school functioning (eg, school climate, absenteeism), substance use, and mental health. More youth living in foster care (30.4%) and unstable housing (25.3%) self-identified as LGBTQ than youth in a nationally representative sample (11.2%). Compared with heterosexual youth and youth in stable housing, LGBTQ youth in unstable housing reported poorer school functioning ( Disparities for LGBTQ youth are exacerbated when they live in foster care or unstable housing. This points to a need for protections for LGBTQ youth in care and care that is affirming of their sexual orientation and gender identity.

Large gaps in cognition and language on the Bayley-III between the top and bottom household wealth quartiles in 1,330 children aged 6-42 months in a representative sample of low- and middle-income families in Bogota were previously shown. Maternal education and the home environment mediated these wealth effects, whereas height-for-age mediated a small amount of the language deficit only. At ages 6-8 years, we relocated 72% of the children and assessed their IQ on the WISC-V, school achievement, and behavior to investigate the evolution of the wealth gaps and potential mediators. The wealth gap in IQ at 6-8 years was significantly larger than that in a factor combining Bayley-III language and cognition at 6-42 months; whereas the gap in achievement was larger but not significantly. Moreover, in cross-sectional analysis, the IQ gap increased from 6 to 8 years reaching over 1 SD. In contrast, the gap in behavior was not significant in either childhood stage. Parental education and early home environment remained major mediators of the wealth gap in IQ and achievement at 6-8 years; later home environment and attending private education also had an effect; and early height-for-age was no longer significant. The home environment partly mediated the effect of parental education on wealth. All mediators combined explained most of the variance in the wealth gap; the remaining gaps being not significant. Results highlight the importance of the early home environment and suggest that interventions focusing on that should have long-term benefits. Also, continued intervention through to 8 years may be desirable. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/_U53iXNww3I.

Harmful gambling is a complex issue with diverse antecedents and resulting harms that have been studied from multiple disciplinary perspectives. Although previous bibliometric reviews of gambling studies have found a dominance of judgement and decision-making research, no bibliometric review has examined the concept of "harm" in the gambling literature, and little work has quantitatively assessed how gambling research priorities differ between countries. Guided by the Conceptual Framework of Harmful Gambling (CFHG), an internationally relevant framework of antecedents to harmful gambling, we conducted a bibliometric analysis focusing on research outputs from three countries with different gambling regulatory environments: Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. Using a Web of Science database search, 1424 articles published from 2008 to 2017 were retrieved that could be mapped to the eight CFHG factors. A subsample of articles (n = 171) containing the word "harm" in the title, abstract, or keywords was then drawn. Descriptive statistics were used to examine differences between countries and trends over time with regard to CFHG factor and harm focus. Psychological and biological factors dominate gambling research in Canada whereas resources and treatment have received more attention in New Zealand. A greater percentage of Australia and New Zealand publications address the gambling environment and exposure to gambling than in Canada. The subset of articles focused on harm showed a stronger harms focus among New Zealand and Australian researchers compared to Canadian-authored publications. The findings provide preliminary bibliometric evidence that gambling research foci may be shaped by jurisdictional regulation of gambling. Countries with privately operated gambling focused on harm factors that are the operators' responsibility, whereas jurisdictions with a public health model focused on treatment and harm reduction resources. In the absence of a legislated requirement for public health or harm minimisation focus, researchers in jurisdictions with government-operated gambling tend to focus research on factors that are the individual's responsibility and less on the harms they experience. Given increased international attention to gambling-related harm, regulatory and research environments could promote and support more diverse research in this area.

This prospective study evaluated the effectiveness of a rehabilitation program in vulnerable children with language deficits. Evaluating reversibility of a sensory understimulation. Two groups of five students, each, (sensory and not sensory deprived) were evaluated at ages 5 and 11. Both groups were taught the compulsory national educational program. The sensory deprived group also had a 5-year rehabilitation program. After that time, their language and vocabulary were reevaluated. Both groups became able to read, write and perform mathematical operations. Both groups took the compulsory elementary school national performance test and all of them performed above the national average. Despite these good performances the differences between both groups regarding language persisted. Deficits in children with early sensory deprivation are improved with rehabilitation programs. In order to achieve better restoration, intervention should be done earlier than at 5 years of age. Even if some deficits are not fully reversible, the improvement is significant and allows social inclusion and the possibility of breaking their circle of vulnerability. Documenting the importance of early rehabilitation in sensory deficits.

Adverse childhood experiences have been suggested to cause changes in physiological processes and can determine the magnitude of the stress response which might have a significant impact on health later in life. To detect the stress response, biomarkers that represent both the Autonomic Nervous System (ANS) and Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis are proposed. Among the available biomarkers, Heart Rate Variability (HRV) has been proven as a powerful biomarker that represents ANS. Meanwhile, salivary cortisol has been suggested as a biomarker that reflects the HPA axis. Even though many studies used multiple biomarkers to measure the stress response, the results for each biomarker were analyzed separately. Therefore, the objective of this study is to propose a fusion of ANS and HPA axis biomarkers in order to classify the stress response based on adverse childhood experience. Electrocardiograph, blood pressure (BP), pulse rate (PR), and salivary cortisol (SCort) measures were collected from 23 healthy participants; 11 participants had adverse childhood experience while the remaining 12 acted as the no adversity control group. HRV was then computed from the ECG and the HRV features were extracted. Next, the selected HRV features were combined with the other biomarkers using Euclidean distance (e

: media-1vid110.1542/5984243449001PEDS-VA_2018-2274 Dietary data from the 2011-2014 NHANES were used to estimate the percentage of children who were aged 12 to 23 months consuming selected food and beverage categories on any given day by age and WIC status (children who were on WIC, those who were eligible for but not receiving WIC benefits, and those who were not eligible for WIC). Consumption of food and beverage categories differed by WIC status. On a given day, a lower percentage of children who were eligible for but did not receive WIC benefits consumed vegetables (excluding white potatoes; 42.3%) and grains (76.5%) compared with children who were participating in WIC (vegetables [excluding white potatoes]: 60.4%; grains: 85.5%) and those who were not eligible for WIC benefits (vegetables [excluding white potatoes]: 58.1%; grains: 87.2%;  Improving early WIC participation and retention could positively impact some diet-related disparities among young children who are eligible for WIC.

Spin is a specific type of reporting bias that misrepresents data and results within randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Because spin may provide a surgeon with an inaccurate representation of trial results, thus misconstruing the surgeons' interpretation thereof and possibly negatively affecting patient care, it is important that spin is identified within publications. The primary goal of our study was to determine the prevalence of spin found within the abstracts of lower extremity joint trials. Using Google Scholar's H-5 index, we selected the top 20 journals in the orthopedic surgery category. We then conducted a PubMed search on July 2nd, 2018 using the advanced search feature, encompassing all RCTs published in these journals from January 1, 2016 to January 1, 2017. Spin was evaluated using a standardized protocol, using a previously published protocol on the Open Science Network. Our final sample consisted of 46 trials published in 9 of the top 20 orthopedic surgery journals. Spin was found in 27 (58.7%) of the 46 abstracts. Evidence of spin in the abstract results was found in 19 (41.3%) of the 46 articles, and spin in abstract conclusions was found in 15 (32.6%) of the 46 articles. Our study found that a significant number of lower extremity joint RCTs contain one or more form of spin in either their abstract results, conclusions, or both. In addition, our investigation revealed that a sizable portion of these lower extremity orthopedic joint RCTs are not registered or do not report their registration, and funding sources are also underreported.

Financial Capacity (FC) is known to be impaired in the acute and subacute stages of brain injury. The current study sought to examine FC in the context of chronic, moderate to severe acquired brain injury (CABI). The Financial Competence Assessment Inventory (FCAI), developed in Australia, was adapted to examine the integrity of FC in an American sample. Healthy comparison (HC) participants were recruited from the community, whereas participants with CABI were recruited from a community-based rehabilitation center. Participants completed the FCAI and a neuropsychological battery. FCAI performance in the current study was compared against previously published Australian data. Multiple regression analyses examined group (CABI vs. HC) as a predictor of FC. Bivariate correlations examined the cognitive correlates of FCAI in the CABI group. The HC group in the current study obtained similar mean scores as those in the Australian sample. CABI group membership predicted lower performance on each FCAI dimension. In the CABI group, attention, working memory, delayed verbal memory, abstract reasoning and impulsivity were uniquely associated with FCAI dimensions. Findings underscore the importance of continued monitoring of FC even after the subacute stage of injury, and identify cognitive impairments that may be particularly detrimental for specific dimensions of FC.

This review aims to describe the role of the school nurse in protecting children and young people from maltreatment by examining the international literature. Child maltreatment is a prevalent issue in global society today and includes physical, emotional and sexual abuse, neglect and exploitation. School nurses are ideally placed to identify and work with children and young people who are at risk of maltreatment through their regular contact with the school community. Integrative literature review incorporating thematic analysis. Electronic databases British Nursing Database, Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Medline, PsycInfo, Cochrane Library Database for Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL). Role, School Nurse, Child Maltreatment. Initial title and abstract review of 444 studies resulted in 78 studies for full text review. Additional search strategies identified one relevant study. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were employed as follows; (1) study published in the English language, (2) peer-reviewed, (3) primary research, (4) inclusion of school nurses (or equivalent role internationally) in the study sample, and (5) a focus on the role of school nurses in preventing child maltreatment. Studies were appraised using the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme tool for qualitative studies and the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology checklist for mixed-methods and quantitative studies. Findings from the studies were identified, summarised and organised into a summary table, before being analysed thematically. 21 studies met inclusion and quality criteria and were included in the review. Key themes that emerged from the analysis were; supporting the child and family, detective work, working with other professionals, training and supervision, barriers to protecting children and young people from maltreatment and trust. International literature highlights the variety of activities that school nurses may undertake in daily practice to protect children and young people from maltreatment. Several challenges to this role are identified, including time management and building relationships with children and young people. Recommendations for practice and further research are made.

Epidemiology and socio-economic aspects of chronic inflammatory bowel diseases in Switzerland Abstract. Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are comprised of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Both diseases are diagnosed with increasing frequency over the last few decades in industrialized countries. Current, population-based data from Switzerland show a prevalence of 0.4 % for IBD in Switzerland (one affected person in 250 inhabitants) with equal shares for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (one affected person in 500 inhabitants each). The mortality rate of Swiss IBD patients is comparable with the one of patients without IBD. Roughly 80 % of patients with IBD suffer from co-morbidities. The most frequent co-morbidities concern cardiovascular diseases, followed by rheumatologic conditions, acid-related disorders, pain, and psychologic disorders. The yearly costs for the care of IBD patients are constantly increasing. The biggest proportion of the annual costs for IBD care is related to outpatient costs of which drug costs represent the major cost driver.

To examine the effect of a video-supported nurse-led advance care planning to frail geriatric patients on end-of-life decision-making outcomes in patients and their carers. This is a double-blinded randomized controlled trial with parallel arms. The protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the participating hospital on 1 August 2018. Frail elders and their carer if any are enrolled during hospitalization, and undergo randomization after discharged. The intervention group receives a 2-week video-supported nurse-led advance care planning programme (N = 149) while the control group receives a 2-week health education program at home (N = 149). Follow-up surveys via telephone at 1 and 6 months measure outcomes regarding end-of-life decision-making from both the patients and the carers. Advance care planning discussion is to understand patient's values, preferences and treatment for care on their anticipation of future deterioration. Treatment options for end-of-life care may not be well-received especially elders because in the discussion process, technical medical terms are presented in an abstract, hypothetical way that are hard to understand. The present study aims to evaluate the effect of a nurse-led advance care planning supplementing with a video showing end-of-life treatment options to promote end-of-life care decision-making among frail geriatric patients. The results will help identify effective elements of advance care planning and inform the development of an evidence?based structured advance care planning intervention in response to the need for quality end-of-life care. Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR-IOR-17012341.

Breastfeeding is a gold standard of neonate nutrition because human milk contains a lot of essential compounds crucial for proper development of a child. However, milk is also a biofluid which can contain environmental pollution, which can have effects on immune system and consequently on the various body organs. Polychlorinated biphenyls are organic pollutants which have been detected in human milk. They have lipophilic properties, so they can penetrate to fatty milk and ultimately to neonate digestive track. Another problem of interest is the presence in milk of heavy metals-arsenic, lead, cadmium, and mercury-as these compounds can lead to disorders in production of cytokines, which are important immunomodulators. The toxicants cause stimulation or suppression of this compounds. This can lead to health problems in children as allergy, disorders in the endocrine system, end even neurodevelopment delay and disorder. Consequently, correlations between pollutants and bioactive components in milk should be investigated. This article provides an overview of environmental pollutants found in human milk as well as of the consequences of cytokine disorder correlated with presence of heavy metals. Graphical abstract.

: media-1vid110.1542/5972295740001PEDS-VA_2018-1872 In 2017-2018, we surveyed a national sample of 1196 US parents of children aged 9 to 17 years. We recorded brief videos of a pediatrician providing messages that addressed 7 HPV vaccination topics that commonly elicit questions or concerns (eg, recommended age). We randomly assigned parents to 1 of the message topics; parents then viewed 4 videos on that topic in random order and evaluated the messages. Parents were more confident in HPV vaccine when they were exposed to messages that addressed lack of knowledge about HPV vaccine ( We provide research-tested messages that providers can use to address parents' HPV vaccination questions and concerns about 7 common topics. Important principles for increasing message effectiveness are to include information on the benefits of vaccination (including cancer prevention) and avoid expressing urgency to vaccinate when addressing parents' questions or concerns. Additionally, providers may need to be prepared to have longer conversations with parents who express concerns about HPV vaccine, especially regarding safety and side effects.

Elderly living in a Nursing Home (NH) are frequently transferred to an Emergency Department when they need acute medical care. A proportion of these transfers may be considered inappropriate and may be avoidable. Systematic review. Literature search performed in September 2018 using PubMed, Web of Science, the Cochrane Library and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature database. Titles and abstracts were screened against inclusion and exclusion criteria. Full-texts of the selected abstracts were read and checked for relevance. All years and all languages were included provided there was an English, French, Dutch or German abstract. Seventy-seven articles were included in the systematic review: 1 randomised control trial (RCT), 6 narrative reviews, 9 systematic reviews, 7 experimental studies, 10 qualitative studies and 44 observational studies. Of all acute transfers of NH residents to an ED, 4 to 55% were classified as inappropriate. The most common reasons for transfer were trauma after falling, altered mental status and infection. Transfers were associated with a high risk of complications and mortality, especially during out-of-hours. Advance directives (ADs) were usually not available and relatives often urge NH staff to transfer patients to an ED. The lack of availability of GPs was a barrier to organise acute care in the NH in order to prevent admission to the hospital. The definition of appropriateness is not uniform across studies and needs further investigation. To avoid inappropriate transfer to EDs, we recommend to respect the patient's autonomy, to provide sufficient nursing staff and to invest in their education, to increase the role of GPs in the care of NH residents both in standard and in acute situations, and to promote interprofessional communication and collaboration between GPs, NH staff and EDs.

Socialization is an important part of the healthy aging process, but natural changes in the lifestyle and health of older people increased risk of loneliness. However, loneliness is not well defined and might differ in different cultures and settings. The main objective of this systematic review is to summarize literature on the topic and propose a definition that might help aging research and practice in the future. Eight databases including PubMed, Scopus, CINAHL, Web of Science, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Proquest, and Age Line bibliographic will be run individually to retrieve relevant literature on loneliness among elderly population using subject headings and appropriate MeSH terms. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be developed and refined by the research team. Two reviewers will participate in each search stage including abstract/title and full text screening, data extraction, and appraisal. We will restrict our search to articles published in the English language biomedical journal between 2000 and 2017. The protocol adheres to the standards recommended by the PRISMA-P. The results of this systematic review can present a more accurate definition of loneliness for researchers who aim at conducting new primary and secondary studies on this subject. CRD42017058729.

Evidence to date suggests that the built environment has the potential to facilitate and even discourage physical activity. A limitation of previous reviews is that they have typically not been country-specific. We conducted a systematized literature review of quantitative studies that estimated associations between the built environment-which were objectively measured-and walking among Canadian adults. Five scientific databases were searched for peer-reviewed studies published in all years up to December 31, 2016, that estimated the association between the built environment (i.e. objectively measured using audits and Geographic Information Systems [GIS]) and physical activity among a sample of Canadian adults. The database searches, title and abstract screen, full-text review and data extraction were undertaken by two reviewers. Of 4140 articles identified, 25 met the inclusion criteria. Most studies included data from a single Canadian province. All but two studies were cross-sectional. Most studies captured self-reported walking for transportation and walking for any purpose. Overall walkability and land use were consistently associated with walking for transportation, while proximity to destinations was associated with walking for any purpose. Our review findings suggest that the built environment is potentially important for supporting adult walking. Overall walkability, land use and proximity to destinations appear to be important given their association with transportation walking and walking for any purpose.

The present study investigated exposure to violence and its association with brain function and hair cortisol concentrations in Latin-American preadolescents. Self-reported victimization scores (JVQ-R2), brain imaging (fMRI) indices for a social cognition task (the 'eyes test'), and hair cortisol concentrations were investigated, for the first time, in this population. The eyes test is based on two conditions: attributing mental state or sex to pictures of pairs of eyes (Baron-Cohen, Wheelwright, Hill, Raste, & Plumb, 2001). The results showed an association among higher victimization scores and (a) less activation of posterior temporoparietal right-hemisphere areas, in the mental state condition only (including right temporal sulcus and fusiform gyrus); (b) higher functional connectivity indices for the Amygdala and Right Fusiform Gyrus (RFFG) pair of brain regions, also in the mental state condition only; (c) higher hair cortisol concentrations. The results suggest more exposure to violence is associated with significant differences in brain function and connectivity. A putative mechanism of less activation in posterior right-hemisphere regions and of synchronized Amygdala: RFFG time series was identified in the mental state condition only. The results also suggest measurable effects of exposure to violence in hair cortisol concentrations, which contribute to the reliability of self-reported scores by young adolescents. The findings are discussed in light of the effects of exposure to violence on brain function and on social-cognitive development in the adolescent brain. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHcXq7Y9PBk.

: media-1vid110.1542/5972300121001PEDS-VA_2018-1771 Participants included 5137 adolescents 11 to 17 years old (52.1% girls; 43.0% racial minority) and a collateral informant (97.2% parent or stepparent) from the Philadelphia Neurodevelopmental Cohort. Families were recruited from a large pediatric health care network. Adolescents and parents completed a clinical interview that included questions about adolescents' lifetime suicidal thoughts. Agreement was moderate for thoughts of killing self (κ = 0.466) and low for thoughts of death or dying (κ = 0.171). Discrepancies stemmed from both parental unawareness of suicidal thoughts reported by adolescents and adolescent denial of suicidal thoughts reported by parents. Fifty percent of parents were unaware of adolescents' thoughts of killing themselves, and 75.6% of parents were unaware of adolescents' recurrent thoughts of death. Forty-eight percent of adolescents denied thoughts of killing themselves, and 67.5% of adolescents denied thoughts of death reported by parents. Several demographic (eg, age) and clinical (eg, treatment history) characteristics were associated with agreement. Early identification and intervention hinge on reliable and valid assessment of suicide risk. The high prevalence of parental unawareness and adolescent denial of suicidal thoughts found in this study suggests that many adolescents at risk for suicide may go undetected. These findings have important clinical implications for pediatric settings, including the need for a multi-informant approach to suicide screening and a personalized approach to assessment based on empirically derived risk factors for unawareness and denial.

Many studies have indicated that colon and rectal cancers differ in etiology and histology. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the associations of colon and rectal cancers with any other (discordant) cancer were site specific. A novel approach was implemented in which cancer risks were analyzed in families with increasing numbers of family members diagnosed with defined cancers. The novel assumption was that, for a true familial association, the risk should increase by the number of affected family members. In separate analyses, familial risks were calculated after the exclusion of putative families with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. The study was conducted using the Swedish Family-Cancer Database. The outcome measure was relative risk. Relative risks of colorectal cancer and colon cancer were higher when family members were diagnosed with colon cancer than when family members were diagnosed with rectal cancer (incidence rate ratio for colorectal: 1.82 (95% CI, 1.74-1.90) vs 1.61 (95% CI, 1.51-1.71); incidence rate ratio for colon: 1.92 (95% CI, 1.83-2.02) vs 1.56 (95% CI, 1.45-1.69)). Relative risks for 10 discordant cancers were increased in colon or rectal cancer families, whereas none of the relative risks differed significantly between colon and rectal cancers. After deleting hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer families, the relative risks of endometrial and ovarian cancers were no longer significant. Genetic data are unavailable in the database. Our results suggested that familial risks for colon cancer were higher than risks for rectal cancer in families of patients with colorectal cancer and colon cancer. The relationships of lung cancer and nervous system cancer with colorectal cancer were site specific. The associations of colon and rectal cancers with lung cancer, myeloma, and cancer of unknown primary appeared not to point out known syndromes and may suggest involvement of a novel predisposition. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A791.

The bioethical principle of respect for a person's bodily autonomy is central to biomedical and healthcare ethics. In this article, we argue that this concept of autonomy is often annulled in the maternity field, due to the maternal two-in-one body (and the obstetric focus on the foetus over the woman) and the history of medical paternalism in Western medicine and obstetrics. The principle of respect for autonomy has therefore become largely rhetorical, yet can hide all manner of unethical practice. We propose that large institutions that prioritize a midwife-institution relationship over a midwife-woman relationship are in themselves unethical and inimical to the midwifery philosophy of care. We suggest that a focus on care ethics has the potential to remedy these problems, by making power relationships visible and by prioritizing the relationship above abstract ethical principles.

Assessment of trace elements is inevitable to reduce stress on environment due to urbanization and industrialization. Rawalpindi, the fourth largest city of Pakistan, rapidly moving towards industrialization and has a large number of automobiles. In the present study, the urban area of Rawalpindi was divided into five parts: Gawal Mandi, Pir Wadhai, Soan Adda, Chah Sultan, and Central Ordinance Depot (COD), to determine distribution of trace elements. Soil samples were collected from 5 to 20 cm depth. After drying and sieving, samples were digested using di-acid (HNO

Through a series of three experiments, this study explored the possible influence of social class on the decision-making tendency of prestige-seeking in a Prestige-Money Game, and further explored the internal sources of such influence. In Experiment 1, the participants' social class was manipulated to examine whether there were class effects in prestige-seeking when individuals of different social classes were paired together in a Prestige-Money Game. In Experiment 2, social rank, which only contained ranking differences, was adopted as a more abstract proxy variable for social class to investigate whether class effects still existed in prestige-seeking in a Prestige-Money Game. Based on the results of Experiment 1 and 2, Experiment 3 further explored the sources of motivation for prestige-seeking among subjects of different social class. The results showed that upper-class individuals showed greater money-seeking tendencies when facing an upper-class opponent, and showed greater prestige-seeking tendencies when facing a lower-class opponent. Such tendencies were derived from social rank; instrumental value played a substantial role. The game strategy of lower-class individuals were mainly oriented toward their personal needs. Specifically, they showed greater prestige-seeking when facing an upper-class opponent, and showed greater money-seeking when facing a lower-class opponent. Such tendencies were derived from the activation of their social class identity; the role of instrumental value was limited. These findings suggest that the essential differences in the game tendencies of individuals from different social classes in a Prestige-Money Game may originate from the fact that different social classes have different demands for the instrumental value and social value of prestige.

Executive Functions (EFs) development is critically affected by stress and trauma, as well as the socioeconomic context in which children grow up (Welsh, Nix, Blair, Bierman, & Nelson, 2010, Journal of Educational Psychology, 102, 43-53). Research in this field is surprisingly lacking in relation to war contexts. This study represents a first attempt at addressing this topic by evaluating EFs in Yazidi children. The Yazidi community is an ethnic and religious minority living in Iraq. From August 2014 onwards, the Yazidi community has been the target of several atrocities perpetrated by ISIS and described as genocide by the international community at large. The University of Trieste, thanks to a program financed by the Friuli Venezia Giulia Region, developed a study aimed at (a) evaluating hot and cool EFs in children living in a war context and (b) developing a specific training method to enhance hot and cool EFs in Yazidi children of preschool age (N = 53). Data related to this group of children were compared with a sample of typically developing Italian children randomly assigned to either an EFs training group (N = 55) or a passive control group (N = 51). Results indicate different baselines in EFs in Yazidi and Italian samples and a significant effect of the program on both trained groups, especially in tasks measuring hot EFs. Data are discussed in terms of hot and cool EFs in children growing in adverse environments, as well as the evaluation of educational and developmental opportunities to prevent children who survived genocide from becoming a 'lost generation'. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at https://youtu.be/7t_08TbxR_8.

The basic and regulatory knowledge of prescription writing is essential for every medical student to evolve into a prescribing physician. Prescription becomes the most important clinical pharmacology tool and evidence of the medication access, prescription errors, prescribing errors, negligence and further litigations once released from the hands of the physicians. A questionnaire based cross-sectional survey was done to evaluate knowledge of basic and regulatory aspects of prescription writing in the light of growing violence against physicians in India. The basic and regulatory knowledge and awareness of 90 practicing physicians was evaluated for arts of prescription writing by a novel questionnaire based on Indian regulatory guidelines. It was assessed for content validity, face validity, readability and reliability. A statistical significant Cronbach's alpha values of greater than 0.9, Flesh Reading Ease score of 37.4 and Flesch-Kincaid Grade level of 11.2 were obtained. A total of 39 questions comprised of 70 statements categorised into three broad sections containing 13 questions in each were asked in 30 min. The knowledge of the prescription writing is very limited in doctors. They are not sure that Over-The-Counter drugs do not need prescription, pharmacist is the decoder of their written prescription, cross-prescribing (prescribing drugs of other system of medicine) is illegal and they should not dictate prescription on phone. Majority of the physicians are unaware that writing prescription serial number, Rx, refill information and dispensing direction of habit forming drugs is not legal requirement in India. Medication access through prescription writing is marred with prescription errors. The physicians have limited regulatory and basic knowledge of prescription writing. Therefore their training of prescription writing through defined global teaching modules is needed. The prescription communications need to be lucid, accessible, comprehensive and straight between doctors and patients following the tenets of country specific regulatory requirements. Graphical abstract Need of standard uniform global basic and regulatory training guidelines for prescription writing.

Flexible sigmoidoscopy (FS) screening has been shown to reduce colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality among screened adults. The aim of this review was to identify patient-related factors associated with the screening test's use. We searched PubMed for studies that examined the association between FS screening use and one or more factors. To determine the eligibility of studies, we first reviewed titles, then abstracts, and finally the full paper. We started with a narrow search, which we expanded successively (by adding 'OR' terms) until the number of new publications eligible after abstract review was <1% of the total number of publications. We then abstracted factors from eligible papers and reported the number of times each was found to be positively or negatively associated with FS screening use. We identified 42 papers, most of which reported studies conducted in the United States of America (n = 21, 50%) and the United Kingdom (n = 13, 31%). Across studies, a wide range of factors were examined (n = 123), almost half of which were found to be associated with FS screening use at least once (n = 60). Sociodemographic and health and lifestyle factors that were frequently positively associated with FS screening use included: male gender, higher socioeconomic status and a family history of CRC. Frequently positively associated psychosocial factors included low perceived barriers and high perceived benefits. Findings suggest that future research should focus on developing a theoretical framework of cancer screening behaviour to allow a greater level of consistency and specificity in measuring key constructs.

Adolescence is a tumultuous period in the lifetime of an individual confronted to major changes in emotional, social and cognitive appraisal. During this period of questioning and doubt, while the executive functions are still maturing, the abstract reasoning remains vague and the response inhibition loose; ultimately the adolescent scarcely resists temptation. Consequently, adolescence is often associated with uninhibited risk-taking, reckless behaviours, among which are alcohol and illicit drugs use. Here, we discuss how the development of the prefrontal cortex (which critically contributes to rational decision-making and temporal processing of complex events) can be associated with the idiosyncratic adolescent behaviour, and potentially uncontrolled alcohol use. Most importantly, we present clinical and preclinical evidence supporting that ethanol exposure has deleterious effects on the adolescent developing brain. Ultimately, we discuss why a late maturing prefrontal cortex represents a ripe candidate to environmental influences that contribute to shape the adolescent brain but, potentially, can also trigger lifelong maladaptive responses, including increased vulnerability to develop substance use disorder later in life.

To investigate whether less invasive methods of autopsy would be acceptable to bereaved parents and likely to increase uptake. Mixed methods study. Bereaved parents recruited prospectively across seven hospitals in England and retrospectively through four parent support organisations. Eight hundred and fifty-nine surveys and 20 interviews with bereaved parents. Cross-sectional survey and qualitative semi-structured telephone interviews. Likely uptake, preferences, factors impacting decision-making, views on different autopsy methods. Overall, 90.5% of participants indicated that they would consent to some form of less invasive autopsy [either minimally invasive autopsy (MIA), non-invasive autopsy (NIA) or both]; 53.8% would consent to standard autopsy, 74.3% to MIA and 77.3% to NIA. Regarding parental preferences, 45.5% preferred MIA, 30.8% preferred NIA and 14.3% preferred standard autopsy. Participants who indicated they would decline standard autopsy but would consent to a less invasive option were significantly more likely to have a lower educational level (odds ratio 0.49; 95% CI 0.35-0.70; P = 0.000062). Qualitative findings suggest that parents value NIA because of the lack of any incision and MIA is considered a good compromise as it enables tissue sampling while easing the parental burden associated with consenting to standard autopsy. Less invasive methods of autopsy are acceptable alternatives for bereaved parents, and if offered, are likely to increase uptake and improve parental experience. Further health economic, validation and implementation studies are now required to assess the viability of offering these in routine widespread clinical care. Mixed methods UK study finds less invasive methods of autopsy are acceptable alternatives for bereaved parents, and if offered, are likely to increase uptake and improve parental experience.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THIS SUBJECT?: There is a need to shed light on healthcare professionals' reactions to the use of the Guided Self-Determination method in a mental health hospital to better understand and adjust the implementation process of evidence-based practice. Healthcare professionals´ values and beliefs play an important role when implementing evidence-based practice in real-world healthcare settings. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The study identifies opposite positions in mental healthcare professionals: being ready or resistant to change when implementing an evidence-based intervention. The positions are elaborated in four thematic dynamic continuums describing reactions to using the intervention. In addition, this is the first study to explore mental healthcare professionals´ reactions to using the Guided Self-Determination method in a mental health context. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: When preparing implementation of an evidence-based intervention, it is important to consider adaptation of the intervention, the mental healthcare professionals' acceptability, support from management and participation in supervision. In future research, it is important to consider collecting data from mental healthcare professionals trained in using an evidence-based intervention, however not using it in clinical practice, to understand barriers towards evidence-based practice. ABSTRACT: Introduction Evidence-based interventions are required in mental health nursing to improve quality and outcome for patients. However, there is a need to shed light on professionals' reactions to the use of evidence-based interventions to better understand and adjust the implementation process. Aim To explore mental healthcare professionals´ reactions to using the evidence-based intervention Guided Self-Determination method in the care of inpatients with severe mental illness. Method A qualitative study conducted in relation to an 8 months implementation program. Data collection: 9 qualitative interviews and field notes generated from supervision of the intervention. Results Four themes emerged from a thematic analysis: "The expert becomes novice," "Theory used as a looking glass," "Guided Self-Determination perceived as an interruption" and "Becoming an informer of the impact of GSD." Discussion Using the themes may help leaders or researchers predict or discover the support needed by individual professionals. Implications for practice When preparing implementation of an evidence-based intervention, it is important to consider adaptation and acceptability, as well as support from management and participation in supervision. Finally, it is worth to consider collecting data from trained professionals, who did not use the intervention in practice to understand barriers towards evidence-based practise.

To evaluate if the experience of psychological intimate partner violence (IPV) adversely affects breastfeeding rates. A cohort study. Maternities in 15 public hospitals, drawn using cluster sampling of obstetric services in Andalusia, Spain. A total of 779 consecutive mothers receiving antenatal care including ultrasound and giving birth during February-June 2010. Trained midwives gathered IPV data using the Index of Spouse Abuse validated in the Spanish language (score ranges: 0-100, higher scores reflect more severe IPV; cut-off: psychological IPV = 25). Sociodemographic data including lack of kin support, and obstetric and neonatal outcomes were collected. Multivariate logistic regression estimated adjusted odds ratios (aOR), with 95% confidence intervals (CI), of the relationship between psychological IPV and breastfeeding, controlling for sociodemographic characteristics and obstetric complications. Breastfeeding avoidance defined as lack of breastfeeding or pumping of breast milk to feed the new baby in the immediate post-partum period. Response rate was 92.2%. A total of 70% (n = 545) of women initiated breastfeeding. Psychological IPV, reported by 21.0% (n = 151), increased the odds of breastfeeding avoidance (aOR = 2.0; 95% CI = 1.2-3.3) adjusting for the presence of obstetric complications (aOR = 1.6; 95% CI = 1.0-2.4). Mothers with psychological IPV avoid breastfeeding. Clinicians should be aware of the risks to infant arising from this deficiency due to IPV in pregnancy. Psychological intimate partner violence, reported by one in five mothers in this study, on average doubles the avoidance of breastfeeding.

How should we regulate genome editing in the face of persistent substantive disagreement about the moral status of this technology and its applications? In this paper, we aim to contribute to resolving this question. We first present two diametrically opposed possible approaches to the regulation of genome editing. A first approach, which we refer to as "elitist," is inspired by Joshua Greene's work in moral psychology. It aims to derive at an abstract theoretical level what preferences people would have if they were committed to implementing public policies regulating genome editing in a context of ethical pluralism. The second approach, which we refer to as the democratic approach, defended by Francoise Baylis and Sheila Jasanoff et al., emphasizes the importance of including the public's expressed attitudes in the regulation of genome editing. After pointing out a serious shortcoming with each of these approaches, we propose our own favored approach-the "enlightened democracy" approach-which attempts to combine the strengths of the elitist and democratic approaches while avoiding their weaknesses.

: media-1vid15852345835001PEDS-VA_2018-1609 Twenty-five father-son dyads completed semistructured interviews designed to elicit specific preferences for teaching and learning about consistent and correct condom use and strategies for addressing common condom use errors and problems. For analysis, we used in vivo coding and vertical and horizontal analysis techniques. Fathers and sons agreed that communication about condom use is feasible and acceptable. However, fathers tended to convey vague messages regarding protecting oneself from the negative consequences of sexual activity. Furthermore, both fathers and sons reported barriers hindering conversations. Secondly, the style and frequency of condom use conversations can help overcome barriers and support father-son relationship management. Talking frequently in 1-on-1 settings and using strategies to reduce discomfort made communication easier. Lastly, fathers and sons reported distinct preferences for teaching and learning about condom use. Sons wanted fathers to give specific guidance on the use and management of condoms. Fathers expressed interest in opportunities for improving their own condom knowledge and skills. Fathers identified gaps in their own condom use knowledge as a limitation to effective instruction of their sons. A father-focused communication intervention about condom use is feasible and acceptable. Enhancing the intergenerational benefits of father-son communication by addressing specific father-son preferences and learning needs for condom use instruction, as well as communication barriers, represents a novel mechanism for reducing male sexual reproductive health disparities.

Increasing age has been associated with higher risk of chemotherapy-related toxicities, often resulting in treatment disruptions or discontinuations. Age has also been evaluated as a potential risk factor for chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN), but current understanding of recovery from CIPN in older adults after treatment is limited. The goal of the current study was to: 1) evaluate longitudinal change in patient-reported CIPN symptoms from the start of chemotherapy to one year post-chemotherapy; and 2) examine treatment modifications in older (≥65 years) and younger patients (<65 years). As part of a larger ongoing study, gynecologic cancer patients (n = 90) treated with cytoxic chemotherapy reported their CIPN symptoms via the EORTC-CIPN20 three times during active treatment and at 6 and 12 months post-treatment. Medical record reviews were conducted to abstract clinical information during active treatment. Piecewise mixed models revealed that older and younger patients reported similar increases in CIPN during the active treatment phase. However, older patients did not recover from CIPN after treatment completion, whereas younger patients exhibited significant declines in CIPN symptoms post-treatment. No age differences were observed in the presence of provider-recorded sensory neuropathy and pain; neuropathy-related treatment delays, changes in chemotherapy dose, regimen, or discontinuations; or falls (all p-values > 0.05). Results from the current study indicate that older adults are at higher risk for chronic CIPN. Older survivors may require additional education and treatment for chronic CIPN symptoms. Additional studies are needed to explore novel interventions to manage chronic CIPN in older cancer survivors.

Stillbirth affects at least 2.6 million families worldwide every year and has enduring consequences for parents and health services. Parents entering a subsequent pregnancy following stillbirth face a risk of stillbirth recurrence, alongside increased risks of other adverse pregnancy outcomes and psychosocial challenges. These parents may benefit from a range of interventions to optimise their short- and longer-term medical health and psychosocial well-being. To assess the effects of different interventions or models of care prior to and during subsequent pregnancies following stillbirth on maternal, fetal, neonatal and family health outcomes, and health service utilisation. We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (6 June 2018), along with ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (18 June 2018). We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-randomised controlled trials (qRCTs). Trials using a cluster-randomised design were eligible for inclusion, but we found no such reports. We included trials published as abstract only, provided sufficient information was available to allow assessment of trial eligibility and risk of bias. We excluded cross-over trials. Two review authors independently assessed trials for eligibility and undertook data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessments. We extracted data from published reports, or sourced data directly from trialists. We checked the data for accuracy and resolved discrepancies by discussion or correspondence with trialists, or both. We conducted an assessment of the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. We included nine RCTs and one qRCT, and judged them to be at low to moderate risk of bias. Trials were carried out between the years 1964 and 2015 and took place predominantly in high-income countries in Europe. All trials assessed medical interventions; no trials assessed psychosocial interventions or incorporated psychosocial aspects of care. Trials evaluated the use of antiplatelet agents (low-dose aspirin (LDA) or low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), or both), third-party leukocyte immunisation, intravenous immunoglobulin, and progestogen. Trial participants were women who were either pregnant or attempting to conceive following a pregnancy loss, fetal death, or adverse outcome in a previous pregnancy.We extracted data for 222 women who had experienced a previous stillbirth of 20 weeks' gestation or more from the broader trial data sets, and included them in this review. Our GRADE assessments of the quality of evidence ranged from very low to low, due largely to serious imprecision in effect estimates as a result of small sample sizes, low numbers of events, and wide confidence intervals (CIs) crossing the line of no effect. Most of the analyses in this review were not sufficiently powered to detect differences in the outcomes assessed. The results presented are therefore largely uncertain.Main comparisonsLMWH versus no treatment/standard care (three RCTs, 123 women, depending on the outcome)It was uncertain whether LMWH reduced the risk of stillbirth (risk ratio (RR) 2.58, 95% CI 0.40 to 16.62; 3 trials; 122 participants; low-quality evidence), adverse perinatal outcome (RR 0.81, 95% CI 0.20 to 3.32; 2 trials; 77 participants; low-quality evidence), adverse maternal psychological effects (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.07 to 14.90; 1 trial; 40 participants; very low-quality evidence), perinatal mortality (RR 2.58, 95% CI 0.40 to 16.62; 3 trials; 122 participants; low-quality evidence), or any preterm birth (< 37 weeks) (RR 1.01, 0.58 to 1.74; 3 trials; 114 participants; low-quality evidence). No neonatal deaths were reported in the trials assessed and no data were available for maternal-infant attachment. There was no clear evidence of a difference between the groups among the remaining secondary outcomes.LDA versus placebo (one RCT, 24 women)It was uncertain whether LDA reduced the risk of stillbirth (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.06 to 12.01), neonatal death (RR 0.29, 95% CI 0.01 to 6.38), adverse perinatal outcome (RR 0.28, 95% CI 0.03 to 2.34), perinatal mortality, or any preterm birth (< 37 weeks) (both of the latter RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.04 to 4.06; all very low-quality evidence). No data were available for adverse maternal psychological effects or maternal-infant attachment. LDA appeared to be associated with an increase in birthweight (mean difference (MD) 790.00 g, 95% CI 295.03 to 1284.97 g) when compared to placebo, but this result was very unstable due to the extremely small sample size. Whether LDA has any effect on the remaining secondary outcomes was also uncertain.Other comparisonsLDA appeared to be associated with an increase in birthweight when compared to LDA + LMWH (MD -650.00 g, 95% CI -1210.33 to -89.67 g; 1 trial; 29 infants), as did third-party leukocyte immunisation when compared to placebo (MD 1195.00 g, 95% CI 273.35 to 2116.65 g; 1 trial, 4 infants), but these results were again very unstable due to extremely small sample sizes. The effects of the interventions on the remaining outcomes were also uncertain. There is insufficient evidence in this review to inform clinical practice about the effectiveness of interventions to improve care prior to and during subsequent pregnancies following a stillbirth. There is a clear and urgent need for well-designed trials addressing this research question. The evaluation of medical interventions such as LDA, in the specific context of stillbirth prevention (and recurrent stillbirth prevention), is warranted. However, appropriate methodologies to evaluate such therapies need to be determined, particularly where clinical equipoise may be lacking. Careful trial design and multicentre collaboration is necessary to carry out trials that would be sufficiently large to detect differences in statistically rare outcomes such as stillbirth and neonatal death. The evaluation of psychosocial interventions addressing maternal-fetal attachment and parental anxiety and depression is also an urgent priority. In a randomised-trial context, such trials may allocate parents to different forms of support, to determine which have the greatest benefit with the least financial cost. Importantly, consistency in nomenclature and in data collection across all future trials (randomised and non-randomised) may be facilitated by a core outcomes data set for stillbirth research. All future trials should assess short- and longer-term psychosocial outcomes for parents and families, alongside economic costs of interventions.

Attention has turned to welfare advice as a potential health and social care intervention. However, establishing direct evidence of health impact has proven difficult. This is compounded by the need to understand both the facilitative contexts and mechanisms through which this impact occurs. This study investigated if, how and in which circumstances an intensive advice service had an impact on stress and well-being (as precursors to health impacts), for clients attending a branch of Citizens Advice, located in the North East of England. A mixed methods realist evaluation of three intensive advice services offered by Citizens Advice (CA) was operationalised in five phases: (a) Building programme theories, (b) refining programme theories, (c) Development of a data recording tool, (d) Testing programme theories with empirical data, (e) Impact interviews. This paper focuses on phase 4. The Warwick Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale (WEMWBS) and Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) were completed by 191 clients, with a 91% follow-up rate (data collected: February 2016 to March 2017). Twenty-two CA clients participated in interviews (data collected: October 2015 to November 2016). The PSS indicated a significant decrease in stress from initial consultation to approximately 4-6 weeks post advice from 31.4 to 10.3 (p < 0.001) and the WEMWBS indicated a significant increase in client well-being from a mean of 26.9 to 46.5 (p < 0.001). Nine refined programme theories are presented which combine the qualitative and quantitative analysis; they are underpinned by three abstract theories: Capabilities model, The Decision to Trust Model, and Third Space. An explanatory framework is presented covering the micro, meso, and macro levels of CA. Use of a stress and well-being lens has allowed insight into the precursors of health in those receiving intensive advice. Using these measures whilst explaining contextual and mechanistic properties, begins to build a complex and real picture of how advice services impact on health.

To synthesise international research conducted on dementia-friendly community initiatives. The number of people living with dementia is increasing as a result of population ageing. Impairments related to neurological changes, together with environmental challenges, result in disability for people who have dementia. Led by the World Health Organization and Alzheimer's Disease International, initiatives have been undertaken internationally to promote social inclusion for people who have dementia. Communities where people with dementia are able to remain socially included are known as dementia-friendly communities. An integrative review of the literature. Scopus, MEDLINE, Web of Science and CINAHL Plus via Ebsco databases were searched for relevant articles. The PRISMA framework guided the article search and screening; reporting is in accordance with the PRISMA guideline. Eight eligible studies were identified. The methodological quality of the eligible studies was evaluated using the MMAT checklist. The matrix method was used to extract, abstract and analyse the data. Of the eight studies reviewed, five were from the UK and one each from Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Four major concepts were identified in the literature, and these are characteristics of dementia-friendly communities, facilitators and barriers to community engagement for people with dementia, strategies for developing dementia-friendly communities and challenges encountered when developing dementia-friendly communities. People with dementia are at the centre of dementia-friendly initiatives, and these foster social inclusion. Collaborations and partnerships enhance development of dementia-friendly communities; however, lack of resources and difficulty ensuring representation of marginalised groups provide challenges. An understanding of the impact of marginalisation and inequality on community participation for people with dementia is important for practitioners, enabling them to support those people. Senior nurses with this understanding can ensure services are able to meet the needs of a growing population with dementia.

Within increasingly constrained school timetables, interventions that integrate academic and health education to reduce substance use and violence may hold promise as a category of intervention that can positively affect both academic and health outcomes. There are no current systematic reviews exploring the effectiveness of such interventions or factors that affect their implementation. A total of 19 bibliographic databases and 32 websites were searched. References were also extracted from the reference lists of included studies, and experts and authors were contacted to identify relevant studies. We included reports with no restrictions on language or date. References were screened on title/abstract and those not thus excluded were screened on full report. Data extraction and appraisal followed the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme, Evidence for Policy and Practice Information and Co-ordinating Centre and Cochrane tools. Extracted process data were qualitatively meta-synthesised for common themes. Seventy-eight thousand four hundred fifty-one unique references were identified, and 62 reports were included. A total of 16 reports (reporting on 15 studies of 12 interventions) evaluated process. Key facilitators of integrated academic and health curricula were supportive senior management and alignment of the intervention with school ethos; a positive teaching environment, including positive perceptions around the ability to be flexible in the adaptation and delivery of integrated academic and health curricula; positive pre-existing student and teacher attitudes towards intervention content; and parental support of interventions, largely through reinforcement of messaging at home. Important barriers were over-burdened teachers, with little time to learn and implement integrated curricula. Several useful facilitating and inhibiting factors linked to the implementation of interventions that integrate academic and health education for reduced substance use and/or violence were identified, providing tentative but insightful evidence of context-specific issues that may impact intervention success. However, overall, there is still a considerable gap in our understanding of how to achieve the successful implementation of these interventions.

Possibilities for Suicide Prevention Through Architecture in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Abstract. In Germany, departments of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry are responsible for the treatment of young people with acute suicidal tendencies. Therefore, it is important to consider means of preventing suicide already during the construction and business operations of these institutions. Approaches to structural suicide prevention can be divided into restrictive and atmospheric-therapeutic measures. The latter includes ways to create an antisuicidal environment and to establish a setting amenable to close support and care by mental-health professionals. Restrictive measures comprise security measures and means of avoiding potential hazards, for example, through life-threatening jumps (e. g., staircases) or intentional strangulation (e. g., employing materials with predetermined breaking points). In addition to security issues, architectural and creative aspects must be incorporated to enable a suicide-preventive atmosphere, that is, satisfying protective needs, creating positive distractions (panoramic views, activities, occupational therapy opportunities), and using positive physiological and natural influences (such as colors and light). Secure access to a pleasant and protected external area as well as exercise spaces is also essential. Architects and construction managers should work closely with the institution's health personnel (e. g., doctors, therapists, and psychiatric nursing staff) during the planning stages for Departments of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry in order to come up with solutions that comprise appropriate, practical, and functional requirements and safety-restrictive measures. Thus, an inviting and atmospherically pleasant space can be created that simultaneously provides suicide prevention and protection, where adolescents with psychiatric disorders can be treated by mental-health professionals.

Science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) continue to work to increase the diversity of the fields, yet there are still significant historical and societal hurdles to be overcome before we reach full representation throughout STEM. The concept of science identity has become a point of interest in this process; it has been suggested that development of one's identity as a scientist is critical to persistence in the field. Metaphors that are rooted in bodily experience can provide a starting point to understand abstract concepts, including science identity and how we as STEM educators respond to increasing diversity within our fields. Given the history of STEM being predominantly populated by people who are white and male, disorientation or discomfort with increasing diversity is not unexpected, and many women and people of color report discrimination and marginalization as a part of their experience in STEM. Here I present a neuroscience-based metaphor that can serve as a starting point for understanding some of the potential disorientation or discomfort that we may experience as we engage with the increasing diversity of STEM and acknowledge this experience as a normal but temporary part of the process of growth and development as a field. I encourage the development and use of further discipline-based metaphors to enhance our discussion and understanding of this important work.

Adults prefer fair processes ("procedural justice") over equal outcomes ("distributive justice"). This preference impacts their judgments of others in addition to their willingness to cooperate, raising questions about whether similar preferences drive judgments and behavior in children. The present study examines the development of this preference for procedural justice by testing children's attitudes towards procedural justice using a resource allocation task in both first- and third-party contexts, and in contexts in which the procedurally just process does versus does not create distributional injustice. Results from children 4 to 8 years of age demonstrate that children robustly attend to and prefer procedural justice over distributive justice. However, younger children are less likely to prefer methods that are procedurally just or that create distributively just outcomes in first-party contexts, when distributive injustice might favor them. Results suggest an interplay between abstract justice concerns and the emerging ability to override selfishness.

: media-1vid110.1542/5849572217001PEDS-VA_2018-1457 In a cluster randomized trial, an intervention used to target parents of adolescents (11-17 years) eligible for a dose of HPV vaccine, was tested in pediatric clinics part of an urban health system. Parents watched a digital video outlining the risks and benefits of vaccine using a tablet in the examination room. The primary outcome was change in HPV vaccine status 2 weeks after the clinic visit. An intention-to-treat analysis for the primary outcome used generalized estimating equations to accommodate the potential cluster effect of clinics. A total of 1596 eligible adolescents were observed during the 7-month trial. One-third of adolescents visited an intervention clinic. Adolescents who attended an intervention clinic were more likely to be younger (11-12 years) than those who attended a control clinic (72.4% vs 49.8%;  Educational interventions delivered within a clinical setting hold promise to improve vaccination behaviors.

Quality criteria of internet-based cognitive-behavioral interventions for children and adolescents and their parents - A systematic review 

There is a moral logic to reasoning about political violence. People will often fight not for individual or collective material gain, but because of their commitment to abstract moral and sacred ideas. Moreover, decisions to support or oppose war are descriptively deontological and are relatively insensitive to material costs or benefits.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Interaction between staff and patients with a diagnosis of personality disorder in forensic settings is important for quality of care, but research is lacking on what determines this interaction. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Insight, emotion-focused coping and emotion regulation of staff influence the interaction between staff and these patients. Staff who understand their own thoughts, feelings and behaviour better (more insight) needed less support, encouragement or back-up from their patients. Staff who cope by getting upset, blaming themselves or fantasizing about solutions (emotion-focused coping) on the contrary needed more support from their patients. Emotion regulation had an impact on the relation between coping and hostile staff behaviour. When staff get upset (emotion-focused coping) and try to think differently about the situation (reappraisal), this makes them behave in a more hostile manner towards their patients. When staff suppress their emotions and also distract themselves or engage in social activities (avoidance-focused coping), they behave in a less hostile manner towards their patients. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: In order to provide compassionate care for their patients, staff ought to be trained in self-compassion. This may help them not to get upset, blame themselves or fantasize about solutions and to understand their own thoughts, feelings and behaviour better. As a result, staff may need less support, encouragement or back-up from their patients. Context is important: Staff ought to suppress their emotions when emotions run high, but only when they also care for themselves by distracting themselves or engaging in social activities. Facing and regulating their emotions by changing what they think about the situation (reappraisal) may be more appropriate once emotions have settled down. This may help staff to remain compassionate towards their patients in the long run and avoid burn-out or compassion fatigue due to ignoring their own needs and boundaries. ABSTRACT: Introduction Research is lacking on what determines interaction between staff and patients with a diagnosis of personality disorder in forensic settings. Aim To test whether coping, self-reflection, insight and emotion regulation are related to the behaviour of staff towards these patients, and to test the possible moderating and mediating effect of emotion regulation. Method Using a cross-sectional design, 76 direct care staff of a forensic clinic completed questionnaires on all variables. Relations were tested using simple linear regression, mediation and moderation analyses. Results Insight and emotion-focused coping of staff were related to seeking less and more support from patients, respectively. Emotion regulation by reappraisal combined with emotion-focused coping was associated with more hostile behaviour by staff, and suppression combined with avoidance-focused coping with less hostile behaviour. Conclusion Insight, emotion-focused coping and emotion regulation of staff influence the quality of care of patients with a diagnosis of personality disorder in forensic settings. Future research ought to include contextual factors. Implications for practice Enhancing self-compassion may improve insight and reduce emotion-focused coping. Context is important: Taking the needs of staff into account may involve suppressing emotions combined with avoidance in a highly emotional situation while facing and reappraising the situation when emotions are low.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Individuals with eating disorders (EDs) experience hopelessness, suicidal thoughts and behaviours at elevated rates compared to the general population. Current knowledge of recovery from EDs does not address nurse engendered hope. This study aimed to explore differences between patients' and nurses' perceptions of hope-engendering nurse actions and the relationship actions have with patients' perception of hope. WHAT THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This is the first study to explore differences between patients' and nurses' perceptions of hope-engendering nurse actions in an inpatient ED facility and find significant differences; nurses' scores were higher than patients' scores. The study explored the relationship perceived self-reported nurse hope-engendering actions have with patients' and nurses' perception of hope. There were no significant relationships. This study provides additional evidence to support that there are common patient needs for nurse hope-engendering practices such as caring and providing for patients; supporting and encouraging patients' connection to others; facilitating patients' adaptive belief systems; and helping to set goals and attain resources for patients. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR MENTAL HEALTH NURSING PRACTICE?: Nurses who work with patients who have EDs should be prepared to work with patients who are feeling hopeless about their future. Thus, nursing continuing education should focus on strategies that enable nurses to deliver care that reduces hopelessness, improves connection, and inspires hope in those who are recovering from EDs. The results revealed that nurses perceived that they offered patients with EDs hope-engendering actions more often and effectively than patients believed; this finding pinpoints a future direction for research that may improve care for patients. Patient feedback identified ways nurses may improve care to engender hope: providing an open caring environment, nurse presence, comfort/pain relief, and involving patients in their care. Actions by nurses aimed to enhance interpersonal connection and nurse presence could facilitate hope in patients with ED. ABSTRACT: Introduction Individuals with eating disorders (EDs) experience suicidal thoughts and behaviours at elevated rates compared to the general population. Hope-engendering nursing actions may increase patients' levels of hope for the future, improve coping self-efficacy, and possibly reduce suicidality. Although nursing staff are integral ED treatment team members, little is known about nursing actions targeting hopefulness. Aim Explore differences between patients' and nurses' perceptions of hope-engendering nurse actions and the relationship actions have with patients' perception of hope. Methods Descriptive, cross-sectional, comparative, correlational research design was used. Responses for 97 ED patients and 10 nurses were entered into analysis. Hope-engendering nurse intervention and hope questionnaires were administered and analysed. Results Nurses' total hope-engendering nurse intervention and hope scores were higher than patients' scores. Discussion Patients reported that the most effective nursing actions were providing an open caring environment, comfort/pain relief, and involving patients in their care and treatment. Nurses perceived that they offered patients hope-engendering actions more often and effectively than the patients believed. Implications for Practice Findings indicate that patients with EDs have low levels of hope. Nursing educators should further develop strategies that enable nurses to deliver care that inspires hope and improves connectedness in those who have EDs.

In the context of transnational family life, everyday information and communication technologies (ICTs) are key members of transnational care collectives. Through the approach of material semiotics to care as a relational practice between people and nonhuman entities, I explore frequent calling as one aspect of these collectives. I analyze the practice of frequent calling on phone and webcam between elderly parents living in Kerala, South India, and their adult children who work abroad as nurses. When family members are scattered around the world, frequent calling becomes a way to enact "good care" at a distance.MALAYALAM ABSTRACTൈദനംദിനമായുള്ള വിവര വിനിമയ സങ്കേതങ്ങളുെട ഉപയോഗം അന്താരാഷ്ട്ര സ്വഭാവമുള്ള വിേദശ ഇന്ത്യ[Formula: see text] കുടുംബങ്ങളിലെ പരിചരണ ശൃംഘലക്ക് അത്യാവശ്യമായി കാണുന്നു . ഭൗതിക ബിംബ കല്പനാ പഠനത്തിലൂെട പരിചരണത്തിെല മനുഷ്യ മനുഷ്യേതര ബന്ധങ്ങളെയുംതുട[Formula: see text]ച്ചയായ വിവര സങ്കേതങ്ങളുെട ഉപയോഗത്തിലൂടെ അവ എപ്രകാരം ഈ ശൃംഖലയുടെ ഭാഗമാകുന്നു എന്നും ഇവിടെ പഠന വിധേയമാക്കുന്നു. ഫോണിലും വെബ് ക്യാമറയിലും ഉള്ള തുട[Formula: see text]ച്ചയായ സംഭാഷണത്തിലൂടെ വിദേശത്തു ജോലി ചെയ്യുന്ന കേരളത്തി[Formula: see text] നിന്നുള്ള നഴ്‌സുമാ[Formula: see text] അവരുടെ മാതാപിതാക്കളുടെ പരിചരണത്തി[Formula: see text] എപ്രകാരം പങ്കു വഹിക്കുന്നു എന്ന് ഞാ[Formula: see text] പരിശോധിക്കുകയാണ്. കുടുംബങ്ങ[Formula: see text] ലോകത്തിന്റെ പല കോണുകളിലായി ചിതറുമ്പോ[Formula: see text] എന്നുമുള്ള തുട[Formula: see text]ച്ചയായ ഫോ[Formula: see text] സംഭാഷണങ്ങ[Formula: see text] ദൂരത്തു നിന്നും മികച്ച സംരക്ഷണം ന[Formula: see text]കുന്നതിന് ഉപയുക്തമാകുന്നതായി ഈ പഠനത്തി[Formula: see text] വ്യക്തമാകുന്നു.

: media-1vid110.1542/5839990273001PEDS-VA_2017-4161 The 2016 NSCH is a nationally representative survey of 50 212 children focused on the health and well-being of children aged 0 to 17 years. The NSCH collected parent-reported information on whether children ever received an ASD diagnosis by a care provider, current ASD status, health care use, access and challenges, and methods of treatment. We calculated weighted prevalence estimates of ASD, compared health care experiences of children with ASD to other children, and examined factors associated with increased likelihood of medication and behavioral treatment. Parents of an estimated 1.5 million US children aged 3 to 17 years (2.50%) reported that their child had ever received an ASD diagnosis and currently had the condition. Children with parent-reported ASD diagnosis were more likely to have greater health care needs and difficulties accessing health care than children with other emotional or behavioral disorders (attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, anxiety, behavioral or conduct problems, depression, developmental delay, Down syndrome, intellectual disability, learning disability, Tourette syndrome) and children without these conditions. Of children with current ASD, 27% were taking medication for ASD-related symptoms, whereas 64% received behavioral treatments in the last 12 months, with variations by sociodemographic characteristics and co-occurring conditions. The estimated prevalence of US children with a parent-reported ASD diagnosis is now 1 in 40, with rates of ASD-specific treatment usage varying by children's sociodemographic and co-occurring conditions.

Fetal growth restriction refers to fetuses that fail to reach their growth potential. Studies within siblings may be useful to disclose fetal growth restriction in appropriate for gestational age (AGA) infants. We analysed associations between birthweight percentiles and perinatal risks in AGA infants, using both population-based and within-sibling analyses. Population-based cohort study. Using nation-wide Swedish registries (1987-2012), we identified 2 134 924 singleton AGA births (10th-90th birthweight percentile for gestational age), of whom 1 377 326 were full siblings. Unconditional Poisson regression was used for population analyses, and conditional (matched) Poisson regression for within-sibling analyses. We estimated associations between birthweight percentiles and stillbirth, neonatal mortality, and morbidity, using incidence rate ratios (IRRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Stillbirth and neonatal mortality risks declined with increasing birthweight percentiles, but the declines were larger in within-sibling analyses. Compared with the reference group (40th to <60th percentile), IRRs (95% CIs) of stillbirth for the lowest and highest percentile groups (10th to <25th and 75th-90th percentiles, respectively) were 1.87 (1.72-2.03) to 0.76 (0.68-0.85) in population analysis and 2.60 (2.27-2.98) and 0.43 (0.36-0.50) in within-sibling analysis. Neonatal morbidity risks in term non-malformed infants with low birthweight percentiles were generally only increased in within-sibling analyses. Using birthweight information from siblings may help to define fetal growth restriction in AGA infants. Size of siblings helps to detect growth-restricted infants with seemingly normal birthweights.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: A growing body of qualitative and quantitative research has investigated the experiences of affiliated stigma for family members of PWMI. Some findings are contradictory and have not been considered systematically. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Family caregivers of PWMI may encounter affiliate stigma, but no systematic review or meta-analysis has been conducted to evaluate affiliate stigma among them. We identified eight variables significantly related to affiliate stigma among caregivers of PWMI. The findings can be used to help clinical practice to develop health promotion and prevention strategies. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Affiliate stigma was prevalent among the family caregivers of PWMI and is important for clinicians to consider. Health-focused interventions for family caregivers can mediate the impact of affiliated stigma through provision of social support by practitioners, such as respite care based on the "Senses Framework," self-help groups and online support program. And the caregivers of PWMI might benefit from further support (e.g., psychoeducation) to improve their knowledge about mental illness. ABSTRACT: Introduction Many studies have investigated the correlates of affiliate stigma among family caregivers of people with mental illness (PWMI). Thus far, no systematic review or meta-analysis has been conducted to synthesize these results. Aims/Question This review aims to identify the correlates of affiliate stigma among family caregivers of PWMI. Method We searched four databases including PubMed, PsycINFO, EMBASE and Web of Science for studies that investigated the association of affiliate sigma with socio-demographic, psychosocial and disease-related factors. Results Twenty-two studies including 3,381 participants met the inclusion criteria. Eighteen variables were included for the meta-analysis. For disease-related characteristics, only "disease attribution" and "care time/day" were associated with affiliate stigma. For psychosocial characteristics, "support from others," "burden," "depression," "stress," "distress" and "face concern" were related to affiliate stigma. Discussion This review is the first to assess the association of affiliate stigma with other characteristics of interest. However, the findings are limited due to a very small number of studies. Researchers should conduct in-depth study in this area and improve the quality of the literature. Implications for practice Health-focused interventions for family caregivers such as respite care, self-help groups, online support program and psychosocial education can mediate the impact of affiliated stigma.

To describe caesarean section rates and neonatal mortality to assess change in access to life-saving interventions in a rural low-resource setting between 2007 and 2013. Population-based cross-sectional study. Southern Tanzania. A total of 34 063 women from 384 549 households who gave birth in the previous year. Using data collected in two geo-referenced household surveys conducted in 2007 and 2013 in the context of two cluster-randomized controlled trials, we describe trends in caesarean section and neonatal mortality in obstetric risk groups inspired by the 10-group Robson classification. Rates of self-reported birth by caesarean section and neonatal mortality. Population-based caesarean section rates increased from 4.0% in 2007 to 6.4% in 2013. In 2013, the lowest caesarean section rate was found in multipara whose labour was not induced or augmented [4.4%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 3.9-4.9], a group that showed a rate increase of over 50% from 2007 [adjusted prevalence ratio 1.57 (95% CI 1.34-1.82)]. Nullipara whose labour was not induced or augmented had rates of 6.2% in 2007 and 8.5% in 2013. Caesarean rates in multiple pregnancies were low at 8.1% (95% CI 5.6-10.5) in 2007, and 14.6% (95% CI 9.4-19.8) in 2013. Overall neonatal mortality was high: 3.5% in 2007 and 3.2% in 2013, with rates being lowest in multiparous women whose labour was not induced or augmented: 2.4% (95% CI 2.2-2.7) and 1.7% (95% CI 1.4-2.0) in 2007 and 2013, respectively. Although use of caesarean section remains insufficient, and higher rates do not necessarily imply better quality of care, our analysis highlights improvements in reaching women with caesarean section. Rates in multiple birth remained low compared with high-income settings. In Southern Tanzania caesarean section rates increased over time, but the rate in high-risk births remained alarmingly low.

This article develops a novel account of middle-range theories for combining theoretical and empirical analysis in explanatory sociology. I first revisit Robert K. Merton's original ideas on middle-range theories and identify a tension between his developmental approach to middle-range theorizing that recognizes multiple functions of theories in sociological research and his static definition of the concept of middle-range theory that focuses only on empirical testing of theories. Drawing on Merton's ideas on theorizing and recent discussions on mechanism-based explanations, I argue that this tension can be resolved by decomposing a middle-range theory into three interrelated and evolving components that perform different functions in sociological research: (i) a conceptual framework about social phenomena that is a set of interrelated concepts that evolve in close connection with empirical analysis; (ii) a mechanism schema that is an abstract and incomplete description of a social mechanism; and (iii) a cluster of all mechanism-based explanations of social phenomena that are based on the particular mechanism schema. I show how these components develop over time and how they serve different functions in sociological theorizing and research. Finally, I illustrate these ideas by discussing Merton's theory of the Matthew effect in science and its more recent applications in sociology.

Socioeconomic status (SES) is an important determinant of disparities in health care and may play a role in end-of-life care and decision-making. The SES is difficult to retrospectively abstract from current electronic medical records and data sets. Using a validated SES measuring tool derived from home address, the HOUsing-based SocioEconomic Status index, termed HOUSES we wanted to determine whether SES is associated with differences in end-of-life care and decision-making. This cross-sectional study utilized a cohort of Olmsted County adult residents admitted to 7 intensive care units (ICUs) at Mayo Rochester between June 1, 2011, and May 31, 2014. Multiple variables that reflect decision-making and care at end of life and during critical illness were evaluated, including presence of advance directives and discharge disposition. The SES was measured by individual housing-based SES index (HOUSES index; a composite index derived from real property as a standardized z-score) at the date of admission to the ICU which was then divided into 4 quartiles. The greater HOUSES, the higher SES, outcomes were adjusted for age, 24-hour Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation III score, sex, race/ethnicity, and insurance. Among the eligible 4134 participants, the addresses of 3393 (82%) were successfully geocoded and formulated into HOUSES. The adjusted odds ratios comparing HOUSES 1 versus 2, 3, and 4 demonstrated lower likelihood of advance directives -0.77(95% CI: 0.63-0.93) and lower likelihood of discharge to home -0.60(95% CI: 1.0.5-0.72). Lower SES, derived from a composite index of housing attributes, was associated with lower rates of advance directives and lower likelihood of discharge to home.

: media-1vid110.1542/5840360268001PEDS-VA_2018-1235 A survey was administered to US households between 2015 and 2016, obtaining parent-proxy responses for 38 408 children. Prevalence estimates were based on responses from NORC at the University of Chicago's nationally representative, probability-based AmeriSpeak Panel (51% completion rate), which were augmented by nonprobability-based responses via calibration weighting to increase precision. Prevalence was estimated via weighted proportions. Multiple logistic regression models were used to evaluate FA predictors. Overall, estimated current FA prevalence was 7.6% (95% confidence interval: 7.1%-8.1%) after excluding 4% of children whose parent-reported FA reaction history was inconsistent with immunoglobulin E-mediated FA. The most prevalent allergens were peanut (2.2%), milk (1.9%), shellfish (1.3%), and tree nut (1.2%). Among food-allergic children, 42.3% reported ≥1 severe FA and 39.9% reported multiple FA. Furthermore, 19.0% reported ≥1 FA-related emergency department visit in the previous year and 42.0% reported ≥1 lifetime FA-related emergency department visit, whereas 40.7% had a current epinephrine autoinjector prescription. Prevalence rates were higher among African American children and children with atopic comorbidities. FA is a major public health concern, affecting ∼8% of US children. However, >11% of children were perceived as food-allergic, suggesting that the perceived disease burden may be greater than previously acknowledged.

Psychopathology in adolescents from seven countries: What role does controlling identity development and family relationships play? 

Research shows that maltreated children are at elevated risk of arrest as adults and that higher verbal intelligence, reading ability, and executive functioning (abstract reasoning and cognitive flexibility) may be protective against criminal behavior. The current study examines this hypothesis using data from court-substantiated cases of child abuse and neglect and demographically matched controls followed prospectively into middle adulthood ( N = 1,196). At age 29, verbal intelligence was assessed with the Quick Test and reading ability with the Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised. At age 41, abstract reasoning was assessed with the Matrix Reasoning Test and cognitive flexibility with the Trail Making Test-B. Arrest records were gathered from law enforcement agencies through mean age 51. Data were analyzed with binomial logistic regressions. The results indicated that maltreated children were at increased risk of arrest for nonviolent and violent crime. Higher verbal intelligence, reading ability, nonverbal reasoning, and cognitive flexibility were protective against arrest for violent crime. The protective effects of neuropsychological functions were more pronounced for violent than nonviolent crime, for the control than maltreated children, and differed by gender and race. These results suggest that interventions targeting improved cognitive and neuropsychological functions may serve an important role in reducing risk of crime.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

In formative peer assessment, the students give and receive feedback from each other and expand their knowledge in a social context of interaction and collaboration. The ability to collaborate and communicate are essential parts of the healthcare professionals' competence and delivery of safe patient care. Thereby, it is of utmost importance to support students with activities fostering these competences during their healthcare education. The aim of the scoping review is to compile research on peer assessment presented in healthcare education programmes, focusing formative assessment. The result of the scoping review will form the basis for developing and conducting an intervention focusing collaborative learning and peer assessment in a healthcare education programme. The scoping review will be conducted by using the framework presented by Arksey & O'Malley and Levac  Research ethics approval is not required for the scoping review.

Colorectal cancer screening decreases incidence and improves survival. Minorities and low-income patients have lower screening rates. The Affordable Care Act increased insurance coverage for low-income Americans by funding Medicaid expansion. Not all states expanded Medicaid. The effect of Medicaid expansion on colorectal cancer screening is unknown. This study aimed to evaluate if Medicaid expansion improved colorectal cancer screening for minorities and low-income patients. We used the Behavior Risk Factor Surveillance System, a nationally representative health-related telephone survey, to compare colorectal cancer screening rates from 2012 to 2016 based on Medicaid expansion status. A difference-in-difference analysis was used to compare the trends. All states were included in this survey. Respondents aged 50 to 64 from the early expansion, 2014 expansion, and nonexpansion states were selected. Medicaid expansion was funded by the Affordable Care Act. The primary outcome measured was the screening rate based on US Preventive Services Task Force guidelines. Overall screening in expansion states increased (early, +4.5%, p < 0.001; 2014, +1.3%, p = 0.17) compared with nonexpansion states. Screening among low-income respondents increased in early expansion states (+5.7%; p = 0.003), whereas there was no change in 2014 expansion states compared with nonexpansion states (2014, -0.3%, p = 0.89). For blacks, there was a significant increase in early expansion states, but no change in 2014 expansion states (early, +8.1%, p = 0.045; 2014, -1.5%, p = 0.64). There was no significant change for Hispanic respondents in early or 2014 expansion states compared with nonexpansion states (early, +6.5%, p = 0.11; 2014, +1.2%, p = 0.77). Survey data are subject to response and recall bias. Factors other than Medicaid expansion may have influenced the screening rate. The colorectal cancer screening rate has increased in all settings, but expansion accelerated the increases in early expansion states and among low-income and black respondents; however, there was no similar increase for Hispanic respondents. It will be important to continue to monitor the effects of Medicaid expansion on colorectal cancer care, especially the incidence by stage and mortality. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A792.

A paternal high-fat diet/obesity before mating can negatively influence the metabolism of offspring. Exercise only early in life has a remarkable effect with respect to reprogramming adult rat offspring exposed to detrimental insults before conception. Exercise only early in life normalized adult whole body and muscle insulin resistance as a result of having a high-fat fed/obese father. Unlike the effects on the muscle, early exercise did not normalize the reduced adult pancreatic beta cell mass as a result of having a high-fat fed/obese father. Early-life exercise training may be able to reprogram an individual whose father was obese, inducing long-lasting beneficial effects on health. A paternal high-fat diet (HFD) impairs female rat offspring glucose tolerance, pancreatic morphology and insulin secretion. We examined whether only 4 weeks of exercise early in life could reprogram these negative effects. Male Sprague-Dawley rats consumed a HFD for 10 weeks before mating with chow-fed dams. Female offspring remained sedentary or performed moderate intensity treadmill exercise (5 days week

This study is focused on four Biobio region cities, Concepcion, Talcahuano, Los Ángeles, and Tomé; these cities flourished very close to different industrial activities. We determined a pseudo total concentration of seven heavy metals (Cr, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Cd, and Pb) in playground soils through inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Principal components analysis (PCA) revealed that contamination in soils comes from three principal sources. Firstly, industrial and burning activities; secondly, the use of phytosanitary and chemical products; and thirdly, vehicular traffic emissions. Zn and Cu are the most abundant analyzed elements in all the playground's soils. Concepción reflected the lowest values of pollutants and Talcahuano the highest, reflecting the industrial effects. The average values of the analyzed elements were Cr = 32.90 mg kg

Research funders, regulatory agencies, and journals are increasingly expecting that individual-level data from health research will be shared. Broad consent to such sharing is considered appropriate, feasible and acceptable in low- and middle-income settings, but to date limited empirical research has been conducted to inform the design of such processes. We examined stakeholder perspectives about how best to seek broad consent to sharing data from the Mahidol Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit, which implemented a data sharing policy and broad consent to data sharing in January 2016. Between February and August 2017 qualitative data were collected at two sites, Bangkok and the Thai-Myanmar border town of Mae Sot. We conducted eighteen semi-structured interviews. We also conducted four focus group discussions with a total of nineteen people. Descriptive and thematic coding informed analysis of aspects of data sharing that are considered most important to inform participants about, and the best ways to explain complex and abstract topics relating to data sharing. The findings demonstrated that clinical trial participants prioritise information about the potential benefits and harms of data sharing. Stakeholders made multiple suggestions for clarifying information provided about data sharing on such topics. There was significant variation amongst stakeholders' perspectives about how much information should be provided about data sharing, and it was clear that effective information provision should be responsive to the study, the study population, the individual research participant and the research context. Effectively communicating about data sharing with research participants is challenging in practice, highlighting the importance of robust and effective data sharing governance in this context. Broad consent should incorporate effective and efficient explanations of data sharing to promote informed decision-making, without impeding research participants' understandings of key aspects of the research from which data will be shared. Further work is required to refine both the development of core information about data sharing to be provided to all research participants, and appropriate solutions for context specific-challenges arising when explaining data sharing.

The many tools that social and behavioral scientists use to gather data from their fellow humans have, in most cases, been honed on a rarefied subset of humanity: highly educated participants with unique capacities, experiences, motivations, and social expectations. Through this honing process, researchers have developed protocols that extract information from these participants with great efficiency. However, as researchers reach out to broader populations, it is unclear whether these highly refined protocols are robust to cultural differences in skills, motivations, and expected modes of social interaction. In this paper, we illustrate the kinds of mismatches that can arise when using these highly refined protocols with nontypical populations by describing our experience translating an apparently simple social discounting protocol to work in rural Bangladesh. Multiple rounds of piloting and revision revealed a number of tacit assumptions about how participants should perceive, understand, and respond to key elements of the protocol. These included facility with numbers, letters, abstract number lines, and 2D geometric shapes, and the treatment of decisions as a series of isolated events. Through on-the-ground observation and a collaborative refinement process, we developed a protocol that worked both in Bangladesh and among US college students. More systematic study of the process of adapting common protocols to new contexts will provide valuable information about the range of skills, motivations, and modes of interaction that participants bring to studies as we develop a more diverse and inclusive social and behavioral science.

Experiences with an intercultural training for professionals from child-welfare services working with children and adolescents following child abuse and neglect 

: media-1vid110.1542/5804909532001PEDS-VA_2018-1051 We conducted semistructured telephone interviews between August 2017 and September 2017 with health officers and immunization staff from local health jurisdictions in California. Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed for key themes. We conducted 34 interviews with 40 health officers and immunization staff representing 35 of the 61 local health jurisdictions in California. Four main themes emerged related to experiences with medical exemptions: (1) the role of stakeholders, (2) reviewing medical exemptions received by schools, (3) medical exemptions that were perceived as problematic, and (4) frustration and concern over medical exemptions. Generally, local health jurisdictions described a narrow role in providing support and technical assistance to schools. Only 5 jurisdictions actively tracked medical exemptions received by schools, with 1 jurisdiction facing a lawsuit as a result. Examples were provided of medical exemptions that listed family history of allergies and autoimmune diseases as contraindications for immunization and of physicians charging steep fees for medical exemptions. Participants also reported concerns about the increase in medical exemptions after the implementation of SB277. Participants reported many challenges and concerns with medical exemptions under SB277. Without additional legal changes, including a standardized review of medical exemptions, some physicians may continue to write medical exemptions for vaccine-hesitant parents, potentially limiting the long-term impact of SB277.

Atopic dermatitis (AD) is associated with psychologic distress. However, previous studies found conflicting results about whether AD is associated with increased depression or suicidality. To determine the complex relationship between AD and depression. A systematic review of all published observational studies in the MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, Global Resource for Eczema Trials (GREAT), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences (LILACS), the Cochrane Library, Scopus, and PsychInfo databases that analyzed depression in AD was performed. Two reviewers performed study title and/or abstract review and data abstraction. Pooled meta-analysis was performed by using random-effects weighting. Overall, 106 studies met the inclusion criteria; 36 had sufficient data for meta-analysis. The prevalence of any depression was higher in persons with versus without AD (20.1% vs 14.8%). Similar results were found in sensitivity analyses of studies assessing clinical depression, depressive symptoms, and adults; studies with healthy controls; and studies of low and high study quality. AD was associated with significantly higher depression scale scores, parental depression, antidepressant use, and suicidality. No publication bias was detected. Individual-level data were not available. Patients with AD have higher odds of depression and suicidality.

To understand Afghan adolescents' and parents' attitudes toward interpersonal violence. We used a 2-stage sampling method in 6 provinces during 2016; we included 916 adolescents aged 12 to 15 years and 454 parents. In the abstract, a minority of adolescents or parents endorsed violence; however, specific situations justified most violence (e.g., husbands beating wives, parents hitting children). Both adolescents (48.0%) and parents (39.0%) thought a wife hitting her husband was least justifiable. Endorsement of violence justification did not appear to vary significantly on the basis of parental education or wealth. More fathers rejected all violence rationale than did mothers, and women were more likely to justify wife beating (75.0% vs 58.6%; P < .01), beating of daughters (78.5% vs 60.6%; P < .01), and teachers hitting students (62.9% vs 51.5%; P < .01). Of all respondents, 25% approved of threatening a child if he or she speaks out against harmful traditional practices. Although it may be socially unacceptable to advocate physical aggression, most Afghans still find numerous conditions that justify it. Without deliberate violence reduction strategies, education alone is unlikely to reduce the high levels of interpersonal violence in Afghanistan.

This study uses a diverse sample that is nationally representative with regards to race and gender (

Introduction The access healthcare services to inmates within correctional settings has generally been low and problematic due to specific nature of the prison setting. Telemedicine has been used as an alternative delivery mode. This study aimed to collate the current evidence related to the use of telemedicine to deliver health services within correctional settings. Methods A comprehensive search of seven databases - PubMed, Embase, CINAHL, Informit, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PsycINFO and Scopus, for peer-reviewed publications was conducted in April, 2018. Results Initial search identified 1147 articles. After review of the title and abstract, 36 articles were included in the final review. Of the included articles, 19 (53%) were published during the period of 2010-2018. Articles were predominantly from the USA ( n = 23; 64 %), France and Australia. There were 23 descriptive studies (64%), five costing studies (14%) five experimental studies (14%), two mixed methods (6%) and one qualitative study (3%). The experimental studies were predominantly focused on mental health services ( n = 4, 80%). The commonest telemedicine intervention used was synchronous videoconferencing ( n = 21, 58%), while eight articles (22%) described asynchronous interventions. Telemedicine interventions were mainly used for mental health ( n = 13), and ophthalmology ( n = 4) disciplines. Discussion In the right circumstances, telemedicine interventions within correctional settings seem to be a useful method in connecting inmates with essential health services.

According to the World Health Organization, suicide has become a public health problem of global dimensions. Forty-five percent of suicide fatalities had consulted with a primary care doctor in the month preceding the event, but no suicide risk assessment had been conducted. Although suicide is an avoidable event, there is no standardized scale for assessment of suicide risk in the primary health care setting, where mental health care competencies vary and decisions are often guided by clinical judgment. A search and review of the best available evidence was carried out to identify scales for assessment of suicide risk for the nonspecialist doctor (i.e., ideally, brief, predictive, and validated). We searched PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochrane, Epistemonikos, and Scholar Google. We also contacted national and international experts on the subject. We retrieved 3 092 documents, of which 2 097 were screened by abstract, resulting in 70 eligible articles. After screening by full text, 20 articles were selected from which four scales were ultimately extracted and analyzed. Our review concludes that there are no suicide risk assessment scales accurate and predictive enough to justify interventions based on their results. Positive predictive values range from 1 to 19%. Of the patients classified as "high risk," only 5% will die by suicide. Half of the patients who commit suicide come from "low-risk" groups. We also discuss 1) the importance of evaluating a patient with suicidal behavior according to socio-demographic variables, history of mental health problems, and stratification within a scale, and 2) possible initial actions in the challenging context of primary care.

Hospitalizations due to opioid poisonings are increasing. While considerable information is available on the demographic and geographic distribution of opioid-related events, national data on the social and economic circumstances of those experiencing these events are limited. This study uses data from the National Household Survey (2011) linked to the Discharge Abstract Database (2011 to 2016) to provide the first national-level estimates of the socio-economic characteristics of individuals experiencing opioid-related hospitalizations. Results reveal elevated hospitalization rates among people who have lower levels of income and education, are unemployed or out of the labour force, identify as Indigenous, live in lone-parent households, and spend more than 50% of their household income on housing. Understanding the circumstances of individuals who experienced adverse opioid events will help inform policies addressing potential determinants.

Transition points mark qualitative changes in the macroscopic properties of large complex systems. Explosive transitions, exhibiting properties of both continuous and discontinuous phase transitions, have recently been uncovered in network growth processes. Real networks not only grow but often also restructure; yet common network restructuring processes, such as small world rewiring, do not exhibit phase transitions. Here, we uncover a class of intrinsically discontinuous transitions emerging in network restructuring processes controlled by adhesion-the preference of a chosen link to remain connected to its end node. Deriving a master equation for the temporal network evolution and working out an analytic solution, we identify genuinely discontinuous transitions in nongrowing networks, separating qualitatively distinct phases with monotonic and with peaked degree distributions. Intriguingly, our analysis of empirical data indicates a separation between the same two forms of degree distributions distinguishing abstract from face-to-face social networks.

The debate about health insurance coverage and the related issue of unequal access to health care turn on fundamental questions of justice, but for an individual patient like DM, the abstract question about who is deserving of health insurance becomes a very concrete problem that has a profound impact on care and livelihood. DM's circumstances left him stuck in the hospital. A satisfactory discharge plan remained elusive; his insurance coverage severely limited the number and type of facilities that would accept him; and his inadequate engagement in his own rehabilitation process limited discharge options even further. Despite extensive involvement with the psychiatry, social work, physical therapy, and occupational therapy teams, DM consistently made "bad" decisions. He repeatedly refused antibiotics and did not consistently work with rehab services to improve his strength and mobility. Although the clinicians wanted to provide him with the best care possible, he often seemed unwilling to do the things necessary to achieve this care-or perhaps his depression rendered him unable to do so. He also tended to take out his frustration on staff members caring for him. All of this was, in turn, very frustrating for the staff. It may be easy, however, to make too much of DM's role, to see his choices as more important than his circumstances. A major goal of the ethics consultants was to reframe DM's predicament for the staff members involved in his care.

The use of smartphones and IM has the potential to transform the delivery of health services by providing an easy to use, cost-effective tool for remote doctor-to-doctor and patient-to-doctor consultation and diagnosis. Whilst the introduction of new technologies has improved access to healthcare, it has also created new challenges. The aim of this paper was to review the literature on the use of Instant Messaging (IM) and IM applications (apps) in dermatology. PubMed, Scopus, and Science Direct were searched for multiple terms for 20 individual IM apps linked to the terms telehealth, telemedicine, ehealth, e-health, mhealth, or m-health. After title and abstract review, 31 papers met the inclusion criteria of IM use in dermatology. Three papers, all from the developing world reported the benefits of using IM in a clinical dermatology service. Other uses included behavioural change, disease management, diagnosis, triage, screening, diagnoses, home monitoring, education, and administrative. Little mention was made of medico-legal issues such as consent, confidentiality, privacy and data security and storage. Currently there is little use of IM in clinical dermatology services, but its potential is great. There is need to address ethical and medico-legal concerns and develop guidelines for its use. IM is a simple, cheap and effective solution for the developing world.

The risk of anal carcinoma after previous diagnosis of anal intraepithelial neoplasia III is unclear. The purpose of this study was to estimate the risk of anal carcinoma in patients with anal intraepithelial neoplasia III and to identify predictors for subsequent malignancy. This was a retrospective review using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results registry (1973-2014). The study was composed of population-based cancer registries from the United States. Patients who were diagnosed with anal intraepithelial neoplasia III were included. The primary outcome was rate of subsequent anal squamous cell carcinoma. Predictors for anal cancer were identified using logistic regression and Cox proportional hazard models. A total of 2074 patients with anal intraepithelial neoplasia III were identified and followed for a median time of 4.0 years (interquartile range, 1.8-6.7 y). Of the cohort, 171 patients (8.2%) subsequently developed anal cancer. Median time from anal intraepithelial neoplasia III diagnosis to anal cancer diagnosis was 2.7 years (interquartile range, 1.1-4.5 y). Fifty-two patients (30.4%) who developed anal carcinoma were staged T2 or higher. Ablative therapies for initial anal intraepithelial neoplasia III were associated with a reduction in the risk of anal cancer (OR = 0.3 (95% CI, 0.1-0.7); p = 0.004). Time-to-event analysis revealed that the 5-year incidence of anal carcinoma after anal intraepithelial neoplasia III was 9.5% or ≈1.9% per year. The registry did not record HIV status, surveillance schedule, use of high-resolution anoscopy, or provider specialty. In the largest published cohort of patients with anal intraepithelial neoplasia III, ≈10% of patients were projected to develop anal cancer within 5 years. Nearly one third of anal cancers were diagnosed at stage T2 or higher despite a previous diagnosis of anal intraepithelial neoplasia III. Ablative procedures were associated with a decreased risk of cancer. This study highlights the considerable rate of malignancy in patients with anal intraepithelial neoplasia III and the need for effective therapies and surveillance. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A764.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mothers with mental health problems are at risk of well-being and experience lack of support. There is little research focusing on the effect of household composition on health of Hispanic mothers with mental illness. As the family is a central feature in Hispanic lives and there is a high dependence on the family for help, it is crucial to understand how household composition and family functioning influences Hispanic mothers' health and well-being. WHAT DOES THE PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Living with at least one other adult in the household are related to better Hispanic mothers' physical and psychological health. Mothers living with a greater number of adult in the house are more likely to have fatigue and depression. More family hassles are associated with worse health outcomes in Hispanic mothers with mental health problems WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: There is a need to assess family members who are supportive to Hispanic mothers and to address families' basic needs in the intervention. Interventions for Hispanic mothers with mental health problems should be grounded in supporting the strengths of the Hispanic familial networks. A family-centred approach for mothers with mental health problems requires integrated assessments and interventions including the families as units. ABSTRACT: Introduction Household composition is seen as a critical factor for recovery of Hispanic mothers with mental illness, but little research has examined the relationship of household composition and health. Aim This study examined how household composition and family functioning impact on both physical and psychological health of Hispanic mothers receiving outpatient mental health services. Method The study analysed baseline data of 137 Hispanic mothers participating in a randomized trial of "Healthy Home," a family-strengthening home health intervention. A bilingual (English/Spanish) research assessor interviewed participants regarding household composition, family hassles, family cohesion and mother's physical and psychological health. Results Mothers living with at least one other adult and having fewer family hassles had better health outcomes. Mothers living with a greater number of adult in the house were more likely to have fatigue and depression. Discussion Hispanic mothers having no adults to help them in the house are less able to maintain their physical and psychological health. A family-centred approach for mothers requires integrated assessments and interventions including the families as units. Implication for practice Interventions for Hispanic mothers with mental health problems should be grounded in supporting the values and strengths of the Hispanic familial networks.

To examine the association between postpartum depression and child growth in a Tanzanian birth cohort. Prospective cohort study. Moshi, Tanzania. Pregnant women over the age of 18 who sought antenatal care at two health clinics in Moshi, and the children they were pregnant with, were assessed for inclusion in this study. The women were interviewed twice during pregnancy and three times after birth, the final follow up taking place 2-3 years postpartum. Signs of postpartum depression were assessed approximately 40 days postpartum with the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale. Child growth was assessed with anthropometric measurements at 2-3 years of age and expressed as mean z-scores. In all, 1128 mother-child pairs were followed throughout the duration of the study. In total, 12.2% of the mothers showed signs of postpartum depression. Adjusted mean height-for-age z-score (HAZ) was significantly lower at 2-3 years follow up for children of mothers with postpartum depression than for children of mothers without (difference in HAZ: -0.32, 95% CI-0.49 to -0.15). Adjusted mean weight-for-height z-score (WHZ) was significantly increased for the children exposed to postpartum depression (difference in WHZ: 0.21, 95% CI 0.02-0.40), whereas there was no significant difference in adjusted weight-for-age z-score (WAZ; difference in WAZ: -0.04, 95% CI -0.20 to 0.12). We found that postpartum depressive symptoms predicted decreased linear height in children at 2-3 years of age and slightly increased weight-for-height. Postpartum depression in Tanzanian mothers is associated with impaired child growth at 2-3 years of age.

Do young women's expectations about potential romantic partners' likelihood of adopting caregiving roles in the future contribute to whether they imagine themselves in nontraditional future roles? Meta-analyzed effect sizes of five experiments (total N = 645) supported this complementarity hypothesis. Women who were primed with family-focused (vs. career-focused) male exemplars (Preliminary Study) or information that men are rapidly (vs. slowly) assuming greater caregiving responsibilities (Studies 1-4) were more likely to envision becoming the primary economic provider and less likely to envision becoming the primary caregiver of their future families. A meta-analysis across studies revealed that gender role complementarity has a small-to-medium effect on both women's abstract expectations of becoming the primary economic provider ( d = .27) and the primary caregiver ( d = -.26). These patterns suggest that women's stereotypes about men's stagnant or changing gender roles might subtly constrain women's own expected work and family roles.

Shared decision-making (SDM) is touted as the preferred approach to clinical counseling. However, few data exist regarding whether patients prefer SDM over surgeon-guided discussions for complex surgical decision-making. Even fewer data exist regarding surgeon preferences. Such issues may be especially pronounced in pediatric surgery given the complex decision-making triad between patients/parents and surgeons. The objective of this systematic review was to evaluate patient/parent and surgeon attitudes toward SDM in pediatric surgery. A systematic review of English language articles in Medline, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases was performed. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were predefined. Text screening and data abstraction were performed by two investigators. Seven thousand five hundred eighty-four articles were screened. Title/abstract review excluded 7544 articles, and full-text review excluded four articles. Thirty-six articles were identified as addressing patient/parent or surgeon preferences toward SDM in pediatric surgery. Subspecialties included Otolaryngology (33%), General Surgery (30%), Plastics (14%), Cardiac (11%), Urology (8%), Neurosurgery (6%), Orthopedics (6%), and Gynecology (3%). Most studies (94%) evaluated elective/nonurgent procedures. The majority (97%) concentrated on patient/parent preferences, whereas only 22% addressed surgeon preferences. Eleven percent of studies found that surgeons favored SDM, and 73% demonstrated that patients/parents favored SDM. Despite recommendations that SDM is the preferred approach to clinical counseling, our systematic literature review shows that few studies evaluate patient/parent and surgeon attitudes toward SDM in pediatric surgery. Of these studies, very few focus on complex, urgent/emergent decision-making. Further research is needed to understand whether patients/parents, as well as surgeons, may prefer a more surgeon-guided approach to decision-making, especially when surgery is complex or taking place in urgent/emergent settings.

CME: Ethylene Glycol Intoxication Abstract. Ethylene glycol is a sweet-tasting alcohol used in common antifreeze and other industrial solutions. Without appropriate therapy, intoxication with ethylene glycol can result in severe metabolic acidosis, acute renal failure, and in death. After gastrointestinal resorption, hepatic metabolism starts with oxidation by alcohol dehydrogenase and results in severe anion gap metabolic acidosis. Other metabolic products are calcium oxalate crystals, which can deposit in several tissues like the kidneys and lead to acute tubular necrosis with reversible renal failure. The crucial therapeutic step is rapid inhibition of alcohol dehydrogenase with fomepizole or ethanol to avoid the formation of toxic metabolites. Additionally, haemodialysis is the most effective way to eliminate ethylene glycol as well as its toxic metabolites. If therapy is initiated rapidly, prognosis is favorable.

Social support enhances self-management and prevention of behaviors and is typically assessed using self-report scales; however, little is known about the validity of these scales in HIV-infected or affected populations. This systematic review aims to identify available validated social support scales used in HIV-infected and HIV-affected populations. A systematic literature search using key search terms was conducted in electronic databases. After rounds abstract screenings, full-text reviews, and data abstraction 17 studies remained, two of which assessed multiple social support scales, which increased number of scales to 19. Most scales assessed positive social support behaviors (n = 18). Most scales assessed perceived social support (n = 14) compared to received social support. Reliability ranged from 0.67 to 0.97. The most common forms of validation reported were content validity and construct validity and the least was criterion-related validity. Future research should seek to build evidence for validation for existing scales used in HIV-infected or HIV-affected populations.

Hypotheses concerning adverse effects of changes in microbiota have received much recent attention, but unobserved confounding makes them difficult to test. We investigated whether surrogate markers for potential adverse microbiota change in infancy affected autism risk, addressing unobserved confounding using a sibling study design. This is a population-based, prospective cohort study including all singleton live births in Denmark from 1997 to 2010. The exposure variables were cesarean delivery and antibiotic use in the first 2 years of life. The outcome was a subsequent autism diagnosis. We used the between- and within-sibling model and compared it with sibling-stratified Cox models and simpler standard Cox models that ignored sibship. Of our study population including 671,606 children, who were followed for up to 15 years (7,341,133 person-years), 72% received antibiotics, 17.5% were delivered by cesarean, and 1.2% (8,267) developed autism. The standard Cox models predicted that both cesarean (compared with vaginal) delivery and antibiotics increased the risk of autism. In the sibling-stratified Cox model, only broader spectrum antibiotics were associated with increased risk of autism: hazard ratio (HR) = 1.16 (95% confidence interval = 1.01, 1.36). The between-within model estimated no exposure effects: intrapartum cesarean HR = 1.06 (0.89, 1.26); prelabor cesarean HR = 0.97 (0.83, 1.15); exclusively penicillin HR = 1.05 (0.93, 1.18); and broader spectrum antibiotics HR = 1.05 (0.95, 1.16). The between-within model rendered more precise estimates than sibling-stratified Cox models, and we believe that it also provided more valid estimates. Results from these preferred models do not support a causal relation between antibiotic treatment during infancy, cesarean delivery, and autism. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B432.

To investigate life-threatening maternal complications related to hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (HDP) in Nigerian public tertiary hospitals. Secondary analysis of a nationwide cross-sectional study. Forty-two tertiary hospitals. Women admitted for pregnancy, childbirth or puerperal complications. All cases of severe maternal outcome (SMO: maternal near-miss or maternal death) due to HDP were prospectively identified using the WHO criteria over a 1-year period. Incidence of SMO, health service events, case fatality rate, and mortality index (% of maternal death/SMO). Out of 100 107 admissions for maternal complications, 6753 (6.8%) women had HDP. Pre-eclampsia (PE) (54.5%) and eclampsia (E) (30.4%) were the most common HDP recorded. SMO occurred in 587 women with HDP: 298 maternal near-misses and 289 maternal deaths. The majority (93%) of the women with SMO due to HDP were admitted in a critical condition. The median diagnosis-definitive intervention interval was over 4 hours in a quarter of women who died from HDP. For PE and E, case fatality rates were 1.9 and 10.4%, respectively, although both conditions had a similar mortality index of 49.3%. Lack of antenatal care and place of residence further than 5 km from the hospital were associated with maternal death. Severe maternal outcomes from HDP were due to late presentations and health system challenges. To reduce maternal deaths from HDP, health system strengthening that would engender early hospital presentation and prompt treatment is recommended. The original research that generated the data for this secondary analysis was funded by the UNDP/UNFPA/UNICEF/WHO/World Bank Special Programme of Research, Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP), a co-sponsored programme executed by the World Health Organization (WHO). We have no other funding issue to declare for our study. Eclampsia is the leading cause of maternal death in Nigerian hospitals.

Demographic characteristics of foster families in Germany 

Interpersonal violence (IPV) is one of the most frequent causes for the development of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in women. One key component in PTSD is altered processing of trauma-related cues, leading to emotional symptoms. In the everyday environment, words with trauma-associated semantic content represent typical, albeit abstract, trauma-related stimuli for patients suffering from PTSD. However, the functional neuroanatomy associated with processing single trauma-related words in IPV-PTSD is not understood. The present event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigated the neural basis of trauma-related word processing in women with IPV-PTSD relative to healthy controls (HC) during a non-emotional vigilance task in which the emotional content of the words was task-irrelevant. On the behavioral level, trauma-related relative to neutral word stimuli evoked more unpleasant feelings, higher arousal as well as anxiety in IPV-PTSD patients as compared to HC. Functional imaging data showed hyperactivation to trauma-related versus neutral words in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and cortical language-processing regions (inferior frontal gyrus, posterior cingulate cortex, angular/supramarginal gyrus) in IPV-PTSD compared to HC. These results propose a role of the BLA in hypervigilant responding to verbal trauma associated cues in IPV-PTSD. Furthermore, the particular involvement of cortical language-processing regions indicates enhanced processing of trauma-related words in brain regions associated with analysis and memory of verbal material. Taken together, our findings suggest that both subcortical and cortical mechanisms contribute to automatic responsivity to verbal trauma cues in PTSD.

Tenancy sustainment-maintenance of a tenancy to avoid a premature end of tenure-is fundamental to prevention of homelessness. Understanding what enables a successful tenancy is essential in informing interventions designed to support people in leaving homelessness. To conduct a systematic review identifying determinants associated with tenancy sustainment following homelessness. A detailed search of 12 electronic databases, as well as gray literature sources, was conducted in 2015 and updated in 2016. We included all study designs with a population of homeless or formerly homeless individuals in which tenancy sustainment was the primary outcome. Two reviewers independently carried out abstract and full-text reviews. QualSyst, a validated quality appraisal tool, was used in assessing the methodological quality of articles. A data extraction form was developed for the review and was completed by a pair of reviewers to ensure accuracy. The heterogeneity of the studies included indicated that a narrative overview of the results was most appropriate. Forty-three articles reporting 38 studies were included. Determinants were categorized at 4 levels: individual, interpersonal, community, and structural. Participation in specific programs (e.g., Housing First), receipt of social support, and older age were identified as positive determinants of tenancy sustainment. This systematic review is the first, to our knowledge, to focus solely on tenancy sustainment as a primary outcome. Although a range of determinants associated with tenancy sustainment were identified, it was difficult to draw strong conclusions owing to the heterogeneity of the studies. Despite being a fundamental concept in homelessness research, tenancy sustainment is poorly defined and conceptualized. A deeper understanding of tenancy sustainment will inform the development and evaluation of interventions that support people in leaving homelessness and maintaining tenancies. Public Health Implications. Housing stability is central to preventing homelessness and addressing the numerous public health concerns that can co-occur with homelessness. Our review highlights that a standardized approach to measuring housing stability and more high-quality intervention studies are essential.

Resilience is a dynamic process of positive adaptation to adversity, including cancer. While the term is used frequently by researchers, controversy exists over its conceptualisation and little is known if and how cancer patients use the term resilience. We examined qualitative studies exploring cancer patient experiences/perceptions of resilience to understand: (a) definitions of resilience as identified by patients and researchers and (b) the themes relating to attributes of resilience as identified by patients. Four electronic databases (MEDLINE, PsycINFO, SCOPUS, and CINAHL) were searched from database inception to November 2017, identifying qualitative studies of adult cancer patients/survivors which included resilience and cancer in the title, abstract, or medical subject headings. Articles were excluded if resilience was not a theme or outcome or was discussed primarily in the context of non-individuals. Thematic analysis was used to code studies and generate analytical themes, and a single author identified definitions of resilience within the studies. Five hundred and seventy-three non-duplicate citations were screened, resulting in 65 citations screened for full-text review. Of these, 33 were excluded, leaving 32 studies. Four thematic categories emerged; coping strategies, social support, spirituality, and growth, within which 79 individual themes were identified. Eight researcher definitions and no patient definitions of resilience were identified. This review found no cancer patient definitions of resilience and that cancer patients are seldom quoted using the term resilience directly, instead identifying coping strategies, social support, growth, and spirituality as attributes associated with resilience.

This study explores the role of academic and social support on young people's educational pursuits in Kenya's Kakuma Refugee Camp. Pairing ethnographic methods with youth participatory action research, we find that support often manifests as abstract, decontextualized encouragement with little grounding in the educational opportunity structure. We argue that this motivational discourse generates information gaps, fueling aspirations that neither prepare youth for understanding, nor navigating the constraints they will encounter. In response, we designed a social media platform orienting Kakuma youth to the opportunity structure, while encouraging them to set realistic goals and plan accordingly. Designing a resource by, for, and with Kakuma youth, we illustrate that refugees have the rights and means to access information on which their everyday well-being and futures depend. This study illustrates that critical understanding of local and global opportunities can empower, rather than demoralize, young people as they shape their futures in exile.

Spirituality in medical education is an abstract multifaceted concept, related to the healthcare system. As a significant dimension of health, the importance and promotion of this concept has received considerable attention all over the world. However, it is still an abstract concept and its use in different contexts leads to different perceptions, thereby causing challenges. In this regard, the study aimed to clarify the existing ambiguities of the concept of spirituality in medical education. Walker and Avant (Strategies for theory construction in nursing, Prentice Hall, Boston, 2011) concept analysis eight-step approach was used. After an extensive review of online national and international databases from 2000 to 2015, 180 articles and 3 books in English and Persian were retrieved for the purposes of the study. Analysis revealed that the defining attributes of spirituality in medical education are: teaching with all heart and soul, Life inspiring, ontological multidimensional connectedness, religious-secular spectrum, and socio-cultural intricacies. Moreover, innate wisdom, skillful treatment, transcendent education, and environmental requirements were antecedents to this concept, with the health of body and soul, intrapersonal development and elevation, and responsive treatment and education being its consequences. The defining attributes provided in this study can assist physicians, instructors, and professors to develop and implement evidence-based, health based and comprehensive education plans according to the guidelines of professional ethics and qualification of using spirituality in practice. The clarification of the noted concept facilitates further development of medical knowledge, research, and research instruments.

Lead is known as a potent toxicant to human health, particularly for children while their central nervous system is developing. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations between blood lead levels (BLLs) and lead exposure in the children's diet, home, and school environments. A cross-sectional study was conducted with 153 children aged 1-4 years, in four day care centers (DCCs), where a high prevalence of lead exposure was previously found. Lead determination by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GF-AAS) was performed for venous blood, drinking water collected in the DCCs, and the 24-h diet (n = 64). Environmental screenings were conducted to evaluate lead concentrations in the tableware, buildings, and playground items in all DCCs and children's homes (n = 18) by using a field-portable X-ray fluorescence analyzer (FP-XRF). The BLL mean was 2.71 μg dL

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Client aggression in forensic psychiatry is associated with burnout symptoms in nursing staff. It is unclear what mechanisms contribute to this relationship. The type and severity of aggression might be of importance in the association between client aggression and burnout symptoms, but also the personality characteristics and emotional intelligence of nursing staff. It is unknown whether wearable devices that measure arousal can be used to detect chronic stress and burnout symptoms. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Especially, physical aggression as experienced by nursing staff is associated with staff's burnout symptoms (e.g., emotional exhaustion and depersonalization). Further research on the aggression questionnaire is necessary. The stress management skill of nursing staff is an important factor to consider in the association between burnout symptoms and client aggression. The wearable device was not useful for detecting burnout symptoms. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Nursing staff who experience (physical) aggression should be carefully monitored and should receive social support from their management to aid their well-being. Contrary to intuition, nurses who reported a higher number of stress management skills might have to be monitored more closely if necessary. Introduction Aggressive behaviour of forensic clients is associated with burnout symptoms in nursing staff. The role of staff characteristics as moderators is unclear. Aim We explored the association between type and severity of aggressive behaviour as experienced by nursing staff and staff's burnout symptoms. In addition, the moderating roles of personality characteristics and emotional intelligence (EI) were studied. Moreover, the usefulness of ambulatory skin conductance assessments in detecting arousal related to burnout symptoms was studied. Method A total of 114 forensic nursing staff members filled out questionnaires and wore an ambulatory device. Results Experiencing physical aggression was positively associated with staff's burnout symptoms. Stress management skills, a subscale of EI, but not personality, moderated this relationship. Skin conductance was not associated with burnout symptoms. Remarkably, the association between aggression and burnout symptoms was highest for staff reporting a higher number of stress management skills. Discussion Longitudinal research is necessary to establish causality between client aggression and staff burnout symptoms. In addition, further research is necessary on the validity of the aggression measure used in the current study. Implication for practice Nursing staff who experience physical aggression frequently should receive social support for this, and staff who report high stress management skills should be monitored more carefully after having been confronted with aggression.

Social status is often metaphorically construed in terms of spatial relations such as height, size, and numerosity. This has led to the idea that social status might partially be represented by an analogue magnitude system, responsible for processing the magnitude of various physical and abstract dimensions. Accordingly, processing of social status should obey Weber's law. We conducted three studies to investigate whether social status comparisons would indicate behavioral outcomes derived from Weber's law: the distance effect and the size effect. Dependent variable was the latency of status comparisons for a variety of both learned and familiar hierarchies. As predicted and in line with previous findings, we observed a clear distance effect. However, the effect of size variation differed from the size effect hypothesized a priori, and an unexpected interaction between the two effects was observed. In conclusion, we provide a robust confirmation of previous observations of the distance effect in social status comparisons, but the shape of the size effect requires new theorizing.

In patients with schizophrenia, social and functional outcome is determined by the cognitive impairment. Assessment of visuo-spatial working memory (VSWM) which can simulate the day-to-day activities by simultaneous involvement of various elements of working memory may reflect disorganized thinking and fragmentation of thoughts in schizophrenia. Thirty-six patients with schizophrenia, 29 first-degree relatives of patients, and 25 healthy controls performed a VSWM task with three memory loads (comprising three pairs, six pairs, and eight pairs of abstract pictures). They were administered Hindi version of the Mini Mental State Examination, Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms and Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms, and Edinburgh handedness inventory. Patients (mean age 27.29(5.98) years) committed significantly higher number of errors than healthy controls (mean age 26.76(6.08) years) in load 3 (P = 0.012) and total errors (P = 0.018). Within all the groups, errors in load 3 were significantly higher than in load 2. Significant correlation was observed between years of education (r = -0.388, P = 0.021), treatment duration (r = -0.880, P < 0.001), negative symptoms scores (r = 0.345, P = 0.039), and the total errors committed by patients. Visuo-spatial working memory was impaired in schizophrenia with increasing cognitive load with no difference in search time between the groups.

We study a stochastic model of urban growth generating spatial distributions of population densities at an intermediate mesoscopic scale. The model is based on the antagonist interplay between the two opposite abstract processes of aggregation (preferential attachment) and diffusion (urban sprawl). Introducing indicators to quantify urban form, the model is first statistically validated and intensively explored to understand its complex behavior across the parameter space. We then compute real morphological indicators on local areas of size 50km covering all European Union, and show that the model can reproduce most of these existing urban morphologies. It implies that the morphological dimension of urban growth processes at this scale are sufficiently captured by the two abstract processes of aggregation and diffusion.

Prevalence and characteristics of peer victimisation in adolescent psychiatric inpatients 

Microemulsions are thermodynamically stable translucent systems widely used for systemic delivery of drugs. The present study is the first to analyze the biotechnological potential of microemulsion systems for therapeutic purposes, through transdermal route, for pain treatment. Patents were searched in the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), European Patent Office (Espacenet), United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and National Institute of Intellectual Property (INPI). The inclusion criteria were published patents containing the keywords; 'microemulsion' and 'transdermal' in their title or abstract. 208 patents were found. However, only those patents which mentioned in their abstract or in their description the use of microemulsion system (object of invention) for pain treatment were selected. Were excluded duplicate patents and those that did not report pharmacological use of MEs specifically for pain treatment. Thus, sixteen patents were selected and described in the present study. Patents were found that focused specifically on the development process of microemulsion systems, the inclusion of essential oils in microemulsions, which place microemulsions as delivery systems for NSAIDs and other substances, as well as microemulsions for transdermal administration. These studies reinforce the therapeutic applicability of MEs in the treatment of acute and chronic pain.

 Underserved populations can benefit from consumer health informatics (CHI) that promotes self-management at a lower cost. However, prior literature suggested that the digital divide and low motivation constituted barriers to CHI adoption. Despite increased Internet use, underserved populations continue to show slow CHI uptake. The aim of the paper is to revisit barriers and facilitators that may impact CHI adoption among underserved populations.  We surveyed the past five years of literature. We searched PubMed for articles published between 2012 and 2017 that describe empirical evaluations involving CHI use by underserved populations. We abstracted and summarized data about facilitators and barriers impacting CHI adoption.  From 645 search results, after abstract and full-text screening, 13 publications met the inclusion criteria of identifying barriers to and facilitators of underserved populations' CHI adoption. Contrary to earlier literature, the studies suggested that the motivation to improve health literacy and adopt technology was high among studied populations. Beyond the digital divide, barriers included: low health and computer literacy, challenges in accepting the presented information, poor usability, and unclear content. Factors associated with increased use were: user needs for information, user-access mediated by a proxy person, and early user engagement in system design.  While the digital divide remains a barrier, newer studies show that high motivation for CHI use exists. However, simply gaining access to technology is not sufficient to improve adoption unless CHI technology is tailored to address user needs. Future interventions should consider building larger empirical evidence on identifying CHI barriers and facilitators.

Humans are highly skilled in social reasoning, e.g., inferring thoughts of others. This mentalizing ability systematically recruits brain regions such as Temporo-Parietal Junction (TPJ), Precuneus (PC) and medial Prefrontal Cortex (mPFC). Further, posterior mPFC is associated with allocentric mentalizing and conflict monitoring while anterior mPFC is associated with self-reference (egocentric) processing. Here we extend this work to how we reason not just about what one person thinks but about the abstract shared social norm. We apply functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate neural representations while participants judge the social congruency between emotional auditory utterances in relation to visual scenes according to how 'most people' would perceive it. Behaviorally, judging according to a social norm increased the similarity of response patterns among participants. Multivoxel pattern analysis revealed that social congruency information was not represented in visual and auditory areas, but was clear in most parts of the mentalizing network: TPJ, PC and posterior (but not anterior) mPFC. Furthermore, interindividual variability in anterior mPFC representations was inversely related to the behavioral ability to adjust to the social norm. Our results suggest that social norm inferencing is associated with a distributed and partially individually specific representation of social congruency in the mentalizing network.

: media-1vid110.1542/5799877373001PEDS-VA_2018-1076 Between 2014 and 2017, 50 breastfeeding women who reported marijuana use provided 54 breast milk samples to a research repository, Mommy's Milk. Concentrations of Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (∆9-THC), 11-hydroxy-Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, cannabidiol, and cannabinol were measured by using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry electrospray ionization. ∆9-THC was detectable in 34 (63%) of the 54 samples up to ∼6 days after last reported use; the median concentration of ∆9-THC was 9.47 ng/mL (range: 1.01-323.00). Five samples had detectable levels of 11-hydroxy-Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (range: 1.33-12.80 ng/mL) or cannabidiol (range: 1.32-8.56 ng/mL). The sample with the highest concentration of cannabidiol (8.56 ng/mL) did not have measurable ∆9-THC. Cannabinol was not detected in any samples. The number of hours since last use was a significant predictor of log ∆9-THC concentrations (-0.03; 95% confidence interval [CI] -0.04 to -0.01;  ∆9-THC was measurable in a majority of breast milk samples up to ∼6 days after maternal marijuana use.

Therapy of insomnia and nightmares in childhood and adolescence Abstract. Sleep problems and sleep disorders have a high prevalence in childhood and adolescence. Normally, such conditions persist and often become chronic. Daytime impairments are widespread with concentration deficits, mental problems, and also a higher suicide risk. Therefore, early and effective interventions are necessary. As symptoms change with age, therapy should be adjusted accordingly. Various strategies for infants and toddlers, schoolchildren, and adolescents will be named. In addition, evidence of these therapy strategies will be shown. All in all, more randomized controlled studies addressing children and adolescents are needed. Furthermore, studies with children and adolescents suffering from comorbid disorders or mental disorders and sleep problems should be conducted.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

Understanding how survey methodology and quality measures are associated with progress from abstract presentation to manuscript publication can help optimize the design of survey research in anesthesiology, and enhance respondents' confidence in the value of survey participation. The aim of this study was to determine if adherence to survey method recommendations and attainment of high response rates are associated with faster progress to publication among abstracts initially presented at anesthesiology society meetings. Abstracts from the American Society of Anesthesiologists' (ASA) Annual Meeting, Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland (AAGBI) Annual Congress, and the International Anesthesia Research Society (IARS) Annual Meeting from 2011-2014 were reviewed. Abstracts reporting original survey data collection were included in a systematic search for resulting publications in peer-reviewed academic journals. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to analyze progress to publication. Ninety-nine ASA, 76 AAGBI, and 30 IARS abstracts met inclusion criteria. Among these abstracts, 43 (43%) from ASA, none from AAGBI, and 7 (23%) from IARS have been published as original research articles or brief reports. Surveying patients or caregivers, as opposed to medical professionals, was associated with increased likelihood of publication (hazard ratio [HR] = 4.4, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.6, 12.4, P = 0.005) as was a larger sample size (eg, >500 vs <100; HR = 12.9, 95% CI: 3.8, 43.6, P < 0.001). While abstract presentation facilitates rapid dissemination of survey research findings, the impact and utility of such studies may be limited until a full manuscript is published. In our review, 25% of abstracts presenting survey data at major anesthesiology meetings were eventually published. Larger sample sizes and a target population of patients or caregivers increased the likelihood of survey research being published in full form.

Behavioral and molecular genetic research has established that child cognitive ability and academic performance are substantially heritable, but genetic variation does not account for all of the stratification of cognitive and academic outcomes across families. Which specific contexts and experiences contribute to these shared environmental influences on cognitive ability and academic achievement? Using an ethnically and socioeconomically diverse sample of N = 1728 twins ages 7-20 from the Texas Twin Project, we identified specific measured family, school, and neighborhood socioecological contexts that statistically accounted for latent shared environmental variance in cognitive abilities and academic skills. Composite measures of parent socioeconomic status (SES), school demographic composition, and neighborhood SES accounted for moderate proportions of variation in IQ and achievement. Total variance explained by the multilevel contexts ranged from 15% to 22%. The influence of family SES on IQ and achievement overlapped substantially with the influence of school and neighborhood predictors. Together with race, the measured socioecological contexts explained 100% of shared environmental influences on IQ and approximately 79% of shared environmental influences on both verbal comprehension and reading ability. In contrast, nontrivial proportions of shared environmental variation in math performance were left unexplained. We highlight the potential utility of constructing "polyenvironmental risk scores" in an effort to better predict developmental outcomes and to quantify children's and adolescents' interrelated networks of experiences. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/77E_DctFsr0.

Parts of the body are often embedded in the structure of compound words, such as heartbreak and brainchild. We explored the relationships between the semantics of compounds and their constituent body parts, asking whether these relationships are largely arbitrary or instead reflect deeper metaphorical mappings shared across languages and cultures. In three studies, we found that U.S. English speakers associated the English translation equivalents of Chinese compounds with their constituent body parts at rates well above chance, even for compounds with highly abstract meanings and even when accounting for the semantic relatedness of the compounds and body parts. English speakers in India and Chinese speakers in Hong Kong showed similar intuitions about these associations. Our results suggest that the structure of compound words can provide insight into cross-culturally shared ways of connecting meaning to the body.

The aim of this study was to ascertain the beliefs and perceptions of practice nurses' influence about the uptake of the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine. Immunization decision-making for parents is a complex process. Principle health professionals involved in immunization programmes are health visitors, general practitioners, and practice nurses. There is evidence that health visitors and general practitioners influence parental immunization decision-making. However, there is a lack of evidence about the influence of the practice nurse despite their well-documented role in immunization. Integrative literature review. A systematic search of electronic databases, including CINAHL; Medline; PubMed; Google Scholar; ScienceDirect; and Scopus from February 1998 - April 2017. Hand searching and reviewing of secondary references were also undertaken. Two reviewers independently screened records on title and abstract. Studies where the beliefs and perceptions of practice nurses about the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine were explored and were published in English were included. The data were analysed using the integrative review processes. Twelve studies were included; these studies were principally descriptive and were of variable methodological quality. Four themes were identified: parental immunization influencing factors, practice nurse characteristics, information and communication, and personal views and concerns. While this review provides an excellent baseline for this information, more recent research conducted in the current policy environment is urgently needed to determine if these views persist. Immunization training and annual updates are essential for practice nurses to keep abreast with the evidence base underpinning national immunization programmes.

To investigate the potential long-term effects of adolescent parenthood on completed education and income. Population-based birth cohort study. All live births in 1982, whose mothers lived in the urban area of Pelotas, southern Brazil. A total of 3701 participants: 1914 women and 1787 men at age 30 years. Questionnaires were completed by the mothers in the early phases of this study, and by the cohort members in adolescence and adulthood. Linear regression models and G-computation were used in the analyses. Educational attainment and income at age 30 years. In women, adolescent parenthood was associated with lower attained education compared with women without adolescent maternity: by -2.8 years [95% confidence interval (CI) -3.2 to -2.3] if their first birth was at age 16-19, and by -4.4 years (-5.5 to -3.3) at age 11-15. These effects were greater among women who had three or more children. Women with adolescent parenthood also had 49 or 33% lower income at age 30 if their first child was born when aged 16-19 or 11-15, respectively. In men, the adverse effect of adolescent parenthood on education appeared to be mediated by a higher number of children and there was no effect of adolescent paternity on income at age 30 years. These findings suggest lasting socio-economic disadvantages of adolescent parenthood, with larger effects being apparent in women than in men. Adolescent parenthood has an adverse effect on educational attainment later in life, and on household income among women.

Stillbirth has a profound impact on women, families, and healthcare workers. The burden is highest in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). There is need for respectful and supportive care for women, partners, and families after bereavement. To perform a qualitative meta-summary of parents' and healthcare professionals' experiences of care after stillbirth in LMICs. Search terms were formulated by identifying all synonyms, thesaurus terms, and variations for stillbirth. Databases searched were AMED, EMBASE, MEDLINE, PsychINFO, BNI, CINAHL. Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed method studies that addressed parents' or healthcare professionals' experience of care after stillbirth in LMICs. Studies were screened, and data extracted in duplicate. Data were analysed using the Sandelowski meta-summary technique that calculates frequency and intensity effect sizes (FES/IES). In all, 118 full texts were screened, and 34 studies from 17 countries were included. FES range was 15-68%. Most studies had IES 1.5-4.5. Women experience a broad range of manifestations of grief following stillbirth, which may not be recognised by healthcare workers or in their communities. Lack of recognition exacerbates negative experiences of stigmatisation, blame, devaluation, and loss of social status. Adequately developed health systems, with trained and supported staff, are best equipped to provide the support and information that women want after stillbirth. Basic interventions could have an immediate impact on the experiences of women and their families after stillbirth. Examples include public education to reduce stigma, promoting the respectful maternity care agenda, and investigating stillbirth appropriately. Reducing stigma, promoting respectful care and investigating stillbirth have a positive impact after stillbirth for women and families in LMICs.

Domestic Violence at the University Emergency Department Bern: A Retrospective Analysis from 2006 to 2016 Abstract. Domestic Violence (DV) is considered as one of the largest medical risks worldwide. In Switzerland, DV is defined as offence requiring public prosecution since 2004. The present retrospective cohort study aims to investigate cases of DV in one of the largest Swiss emergency departments. The aggressors are predominantly male and either (ex-)partner or (ex-)husband of the victim. The head and the extremities are most often injured. Strangulation was documented in 16 % of the cases. Prevalence in our ED is very low with 0.07 % in 2016 (overall 0.09 % 2006-2016) and much lower compared with international data. We assume that we face many unreported cases and that victims are reluctant to seek medical help. Healthcare professionals should receive regular education in domestic violence, standards of care must be defined, and a sensitive and open-minded communication style is essential.

Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) of a 15-year-old female patient suffering from a severe delusional depression: a case report Abstract. Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) is a modern therapy of severe psychiatric disorders. However, ECT is rarely used in treating children and adolescents with psychiatric disorders. This case report refers about a 15-year-old female patient suffering from severe depressive episodes with psychotic symptoms treated with ECT. After unsuccessful combined behavioral therapy and medication, the patient received a total of 11 ECT treatments with right unilateral electrode placement. The severity of depressive symptoms was assessed by self (BDI-II) and external (HDRS21) scores before, during and after treatment. A rapid decline of depressive symptoms was observed. ECT provides a safe and effective method for the treatment of severe depressive disorders in childhood and adolescence and should be included earlier than usual into the standard therapeutic concepts.

The concepts Vivir Bien and Buen Vivir, often translated as 'living well' or 'collective well-being,' are central to contemporary social medicine reforms in Latin America. Owing to increasing social inequalities, notably in the public healthcare sector, Vivir Bien has regional significance as it redefines the neoliberal development goals from economic improvement to so-called post-neoliberal social goals of harmonious co-existence between society and the physical environment. To examine how this abstract concept is conceptualised, is incorporated into, and shapes state-sponsored public health strategies, I analyze the 'Vivir Limpio, Vivir Sano, Vivir Bonito, Vivir Bien … !' ('Live Clean, Live Healthy, Live Beautiful, Live Well … !') national campaign in Nicaragua that began in 2013. The campaign promotes normative socio-political ideals around environmental health citizenship, including the adoption of indigenous grammars and solidarity. However, analyses of dozens of interviews and 143 household surveys in four historically impoverished, untidy, and unhygienic communities suggest that the campaign's discourses do not resonate with citizens or their socio-economic contexts. In highlighting discrepancies between state-sponsored normative sociopolitical ideals and citizens' lived realities and perspectives, this paper introduces the term 'post-neoliberal citizenship' to reflect contemporary - and changing - conceptualizations of health, wellbeing, and citizenship in post-neoliberal Latin America.

: media-1vid110.1542/5799877332001PEDS-VA_2018-0261

Diabetes is infrequently coded as the primary cause of death but may contribute to cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in response to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) exposure. We analyzed all contributing causes of death to examine susceptibility of diabetics to CVD mortality from long-term exposure. We linked a subset of the 2001 Canadian Census Health and Environment Cohort (CanCHEC) with 10 years of follow-up to all causes of death listed on death certificates. We used survival models to examine the association between CVD deaths (n = 123,500) and exposure to PM2.5 among deaths that co-occurred with diabetes (n = 20,600) on the death certificate. More detailed information on behavioral covariates and diabetes status at baseline available in the Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS)-mortality cohort (n = 12,400 CVD deaths, with 2,800 diabetes deaths) complemented the CanCHEC analysis. Among CanCHEC subjects, comention of diabetes on the death certificate increased the magnitude of association between CVD mortality and PM2.5 (HR = 1.51 [1.39-1.65] per 10 μg/m) versus all CVD deaths (HR = 1.25 [1.21-1.29]) or CVD deaths without diabetes (HR = 1.20 [1.16-1.25]). Among CCHS subjects, diabetics who used insulin or medication (included as proxies for severity) had higher HR estimates for CVD deaths from PM2.5 (HR = 1.51 [1.08-2.12]) relative to the CVD death estimate for all respondents (HR = 1.31 [1.16-1.47]). Mention of diabetes on the death certificate resulted in higher magnitude associations between PM2.5 and CVD mortality, specifically among those who manage their diabetes with insulin or medication. Analyses restricted to the primary cause of death likely underestimate the role of diabetes in air pollution-related mortality. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B408.

Commercial 

Cluster randomised trials (CRTs) are a key instrument to evaluate public health interventions. Fidelity assessment examines study processes to gauge whether an intervention was delivered as initially planned. Evaluation of implementation fidelity (IF) is required to establish whether the measured effects of a trial are due to the intervention itself and may be particularly important for CRTs of complex interventions conducted in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). However, current CRT reporting guidelines offer no guidance on IF assessment. The objective of this review was to study current practices concerning the assessment of IF in CRTs of public health interventions in LMICs. CRTs of public health interventions in LMICs that planned or reported IF assessment in either the trial protocol or the main trial report were included. The MEDLINE/PubMed, CINAHL and EMBASE databases were queried from January 2012 to May 2016. To ensure availability of a study protocol, CRTs reporting a registration number in the abstract were included. Relevant data were extracted from each study protocol and trial report by two researchers using a predefined screening sheet. Risk of bias for individual studies was assessed. We identified 90 CRTs of public health interventions in LMICs with a study protocol in a publicly available trial registry published from January 2012 to May 2016. Among these 90 studies, 25 (28%) did not plan or report assessing IF; the remaining 65 studies (72%) addressed at least one IF dimension. IF assessment was planned in 40% (36/90) of trial protocols and reported in 71.1% (64/90) of trial reports. The proportion of overall agreement between the trial protocol and trial report concerning occurrence of IF assessment was 66.7% (60/90). Most studies had low to moderate risk of bias. IF assessment is not currently a systematic practice in CRTs of public health interventions carried out in LMICs. In the absence of IF assessment, it may be difficult to determine if CRT results are due to the intervention design, to its implementation, or to unknown or external factors that may influence results. CRT reporting guidelines should promote IF assessment. Protocol published and available at: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13643-016-0351-0.

: media-1vid110.1542/5789654654001PEDS-VA_2017-3498 Data from the nationally representative Monitoring the Future survey, administered 1975-2014, were analyzed to determine the annual proportion of abstinent students. The 2014 Monitoring the Future cohort was analyzed to determine associations between nonuse and risk and protective factors. The prevalence of abstaining seniors between 1976 and 2014 increased fivefold for lifetime abstinence and more than doubled for past 30 days; similar increases were reported by younger students between 1991 and 2014. Trend lines were distinct for alcohol, which increased steadily over the past 38 years; tobacco, which increased dramatically over the past 20 years; and marijuana and illicit drugs, which increased slightly, although not consistently, between 1976 and 2014. In 2014, students that identified as male, African American, or other race and those who reported greater religious commitment were significantly more likely to report lifetime abstinence. Students that lived in single-parent households, spent more evenings out, worked more hours during the school year, and reported lower grades and more truancy had lower abstinence rates. Abstinence is a realistic choice for a growing proportion of high school students. With the differences in abstinence trends for individual substances, we suggest strategies for advancing prevention efforts.

Dementia from a palliative care perspective: why a disease-specific advance care planning is necessary Abstract. Palliative Care has to transform profoundly in the context of population aging in many countries around the globe. It has to collaborate increasingly with geriatric medicine and incorporate geriatric expertise. One of the pivotal challenges of geriatric palliative care is ethically appropriate decision making for patients who have lost decision-making capacity. While the traditional approach to advance directives (living wills) has demonstrably proven ineffective, the new approach that is currently being embraced, including in German-speaking countries, is the systemic process of advance care planning (ACP). In this article, ACP is first presented with its general aims, elements and effects. Second, it is shown why we need an adapted ACP program for people with dementia and what such a dementia-specific ACP must entail.

Palliative Sedation: Comments on a controversial topic Abstract. Palliative sedation (PS) is an accepted medical practice for terminally ill patients. It intends the alleviation of unbearable suffering by intentionally lowering the level of consciousness. In contrast to physician assisted suicide and euthanasia, palliative sedation aims to relieve burdensome symptoms with no intention of hastening death. PC can be applied as "intermittent palliative sedation" or "continuous (deep) sedation until death". Most ethical controversies are related to the latter form of PS: 1: Is existential or psychosocial suffering a possible indication for PS? 2: What is the earliest possible time point to start PS? 3: The withdrawal or withholding of artificial nutrition and hydration during PS. A critical reflection of these ethical controversial aspects within the treatment team is highly desirable. However, the patient's well-being and the respect for the patient's decisions that are based on experiences which are made only by him or her, must remain the guiding principle for medical actions.

Role of the influence of cultural and religious beliefs on medical end-of-life decision-making Abstract. Decision-making at the end of life must encompass medical indication, therapeutic offer, patient autonomy and consent. Furthermore, physicians must reflect on whether their own cultural and religious beliefs have an influence on their decision-making process. Basic knowledge in palliative care or integration of experts in palliative care may be useful when dealing with patients at the end of life, particularly when shifting treatment goals to palliative or comfort care measures is considered or necessary. Expertise in palliative care may also be useful in the care for patients well before the end of life, for example in symptom management, wound care, communication with family or psycho-social care. Ideally, goals of care should be discussed with the patient. Decision-making includes judging, respecting individual values, caring and taking on responsibility - including responsibility for potentially wrong choices. It is imperative that respect for patient autonomy and increasingly strengthened patient competence must be reflected in physicians' reasoning about medical and ethical end-of-life decisions, as well as about empirical and normative aspects of medical indication.

Anticipation at the end of life - a critical appraisal for the clinical practice Abstract. Advance planning or anticipation in health care is based on prognosis, and that is no more (and no less) than dealing with probabilities. Knowledge about prognostic factors in medicine is needed here, and competencies how to communicate it. In medicine, advance planning is currently more and more regarded as an elementary right as an expression of the implementation of patient autonomy - but what content can or must be discussed and defined? The terminology on the subject of "advance planning" is inconsistent both nationally and internationally. In Switzerland, therefore, an attempt was made to contribute to a more uniform understanding in this respect with the new "framework concept for advance planning in health care". For clinical practice it can be summarized as follows: Advance planning requires the following attributes: Trust, shared experience of health crises and how to deal with them, communicative abilities of all those involved (not only on the part of medicine!), an understanding of the role of medicine between coach and mountain guide, a systemic approach with the involvement of relatives in important decisions, an established regional health network that functions perfectly up to the electronic documentation, full cost reimbursement of the sometimes very demanding decision-making processes, documentation and revision - and of all the awareness and self-reflection that advance planning is not about certainties but about probabilities.

Emphatic doctor-patient communication has been associated with improved psycho-physiological well-being involving cardiovascular and neuroendocrine responses. Nevertheless, a comprehensive assessment of heartbeat linear and nonlinear dynamics throughout the communication of a life-threatening disease has not been performed yet. To this extent, we studied linear heartbeat dynamics through the extraction of time-frequency domain measurements, as well as heartbeat nonlinear and complex dynamics through novel approaches to compute multi-scale and multi-lag series analyses: namely, the multi-scale distribution entropy and lagged Poincaré plot symbolic analysis. Heart rate variability series were recorded from 54 healthy female subjects who were blind to the aim of the experiment. Participants were randomly assigned into two groups: 27 subjects watched a video where an oncologist discloses the diagnosis of a cancer metastasis to a patient, whereas the remaining 27 watched the same video including four additional supportive comments by the clinician. Considering differences between the beginning and the end of each communication video, results from non-parametric Wilcoxon tests demonstrated that, at a group level, significant differences occurred in heartbeat linear and nonlinear dynamics, with lower complexity during nonsupportive communication. Furthermore, a support vector machine algorithm, validated using a leave-one-subject-out procedure, was able to discern the supportive experience at a single-subject level with an accuracy of 83.33% when nonlinear features were considered, dropping to 51.85% when using standard HRV features only. In conclusion, heartbeat nonlinear and complex dynamics can be a viable tool for the psycho-physiological evaluation of supportive doctor-patient communication. Graphical Abstract Scheme of the three main stages of the study: signal acquisition during doctor-patient communication, ECG signal processing and pattern recognition results.

Relatives or 'Zugehörige'? - An attempt to explore the meaning of terms Abstract. Societal change has an impact on social coexistence and it is associated with pluralisation of family patterns, altered kinship relations and a greater significance of friendship relations. This is also reflected in familial situations with occurring care needs and the professional carers' perception of these developments has found its linguistic equivalent in terms like 'relatives' or 'Zugehörige'. These and further terms used in nursing communication will be explored in this article. The objective of this article is to determine the meanings of terms used in German-speaking nursing literature for close persons of care receivers. For this purpose an explicating content analysis was conducted and etymological, juridical and social-scientific definitions were compared to the apprehension of professional care givers. The findings show a wide range of terminology combined with a varying comprehension of these terms challenging their appropriateness for professional nursing communication. Based on these findings a definition of the concept 'relatives' is brought up for discussion as an attempt to contribute to a more coherent intraprofessional comprehension.

: media-1vid110.1542/5789654354001PEDS-VA_2018-0023 We obtained retrospective information on 9 ACEs self-reported by parents and parent reports of their children's (1) behavioral problems (using the Behavior Problems Index [BPI]), (2) attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder diagnosis, and (3) emotional disturbance diagnosis from the 2013 Panel Study of Income Dynamics (PSID) core interview and the linked PSID Childhood Retrospective Circumstances Study and 2014 PSID Child Development Supplement. Multivariate linear and logistic regression models were used to estimate child behavioral health outcomes by parent retrospective ACE count. Children of parents with a history of 4 or more ACEs had on average a 2.3-point (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.3-3.2) higher score on the BPI, 2.1 times (95% CI: 1.1-3.8) higher odds of hyperactivity, and 4.2 times (95% CI: 1.7-10.8) higher odds of an emotional disturbance diagnosis than children of parents with no ACEs. Maternal ACEs revealed a stronger association with child behavior problems than paternal ACEs. Relationships between parents' 9 component ACEs individually and children's BPI scores revealed consistently positive associations. Mediation by parent emotional distress and aggravation were observed. Parents with greater exposure to ACEs are more likely to have children with behavioral health problems.

Ageing population is attributable to the growing trend of diabetes mellitus. Diabetic patients are three times greater risk of developing tuberculosis. The review aims to describe the state of tuberculosis and diabetes mellitus comorbidity, risk factors for the comorbidity from the perspective of the ageing in Nepal. It is a systematic narrative review of literature in Google Scholar and Pubmed. At first, title and abstract of an article was reviewed for relevance, and then full article was reviewed for validity. The secondary data was retrieved from the Central Bureau of Statistics of Nepal and WHO, and analysed in the Ms-Excel. In Nepal, the population is ageing. The risk factors associated with diabetes are escalating. On the other hand, tuberculosis is endemic and about 45% of the Nepalese people are infected with tuberculosis bacteria. These circumstances have laid the foundation that fosters tuberculosis and diabetes co-epidemic in the future. The clinical management of patients with the comorbid condition is a difficult task because diabetes and tuberculosis interact with each other, one worsening the other. The upsurge of the co-morbidity needs the provision of more health services threatening the public health system of Nepal. It is fundamental to create a mechanism to integrate diabetes and tuberculosis program such as screening, diagnosis and management of the both diseases at the all levels of health service delivery. Furthermore, increase awareness of healthy lifestyle and the prevention of the risk factors for tuberculosis and diabetes could reduce the occurrence of the comorbidity in the future.

Lifestyle optimizations are implementable changes that can have an impact on health and disease. Nutrition is a lifestyle optimization that has been shown to be of great importance in cancer initiation, progression, and metastasis. Dozens of clinical trials are currently in progress that focus on the nutritional modifications that cancer patients can make prior to and during medical care that increase the efficacy of treatment. In this review, we discuss various nutritional inventions for cancer patients and the analytical approaches to characterize the downstream molecular effects. We first begin by briefly explaining the many different forms of nutritional intervention currently being used in cancer treatment as well as their motivating biology. The forms of nutrient modulation described in this review include calorie restriction, the different practices of fasting, and carbohydrate restriction. The review then shifts to explain how proteomics is used to determine biomarkers of cancer and how it can be utilized in the future to determine the metabolic phenotype of a tumor, and inform physicians if nutritional intervention should be recommended for a cancer patient. Nutrigenomics aims to understand the relationship of nutrients and gene expression and can be used to understand the downstream molecular effects of nutrition restriction, partially through proteomic analysis. Proteomics is just beginning to be used as cancer diagnostic and predictive tools. However, these approaches have not been used to their full potential to understand nutritional intervention in cancer. Graphical abstract ᅟ.

The placental insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system is critical for normal fetoplacental growth, which is dysregulated following several pregnancy perturbations including uteroplacental insufficiency and maternal obesity. We report that the IGF system was altered in placentae of mothers born growth restricted compared to normal birth weight mothers, with maternal diet- and fetal sex-specific responses. Additionally, we report increased body weight and plasma IGF1 concentrations in fetuses from chow-fed normal birth weight mothers that exercised prior to and continued during pregnancy compared to sedentary mothers. Exercise initiated during pregnancy, on the other hand, resulted in placental morphological alterations and increased IGF1 and IGF1R protein expression, which may in part be modulated by reduced Let 7f-1 miRNA abundance. Growth restriction of mothers before birth and exercise differentially regulate the placental IGF system with diet- and sex-specific responses, probably as a means to improve fetoplacental growth and development, and hence neonatal survival. This increased neonatal survival may prevent adult disease onset. The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system regulates fetoplacental growth and plays a role in disease programming. Dysregulation of the IGF system is implicated in several pregnancy perturbations associated with altered fetal growth, including intrauterine growth restriction and maternal obesity. Limited human studies have demonstrated that maternal exercise enhances fetoplacental growth and decreases cord IGF ligands, which may restore the placental IGF system in complicated pregnancies. This study investigated the impact maternal exercise has on the placental IGF system in placentae from mothers born growth restricted and if these outcomes are dependent on maternal diet or fetal sex. Uteroplacental insufficiency (Restricted) or sham (Control) surgery was induced on embryonic day (E) 18 in Wistar-Kyoto rats. F1 offspring were fed a chow or high-fat diet from weaning, and at 16 weeks were randomly allocated an exercise protocol: Sedentary, Exercised prior to and during pregnancy (Exercise), or Exercised during pregnancy only (PregEx). Females were mated (20 weeks) with placentae associated with F2 fetuses collected at E20. The placental IGF system mRNA abundance and placental morphology was altered in mothers born growth restricted. Exercise increased fetal weight and Control plasma IGF1 concentrations, and decreased female placental weight. PregEx did not influence fetoplacental growth but increased placental IGF1 and IGF1R (potentially modulated by reduced Let 7f-1 miRNA) and decreased placental IGF2 protein. Importantly, these placental IGF system changes occurred with sex-specific responses. These data highlight that exercise differently influences fetoplacental growth and the placental IGF system depending on maternal exercise initiation, which may prevent the transgenerational transmission of deficits and dysfunction.

Accurate characterization of Carbon (C) consequences of forest disturbances and management is critical for informed climate mitigation and adaptation strategies. While research into generalized properties of the forest C cycle informs policy and provides abstract guidance to managers, most management occurs at local scales and relies upon monitoring systems that can consistently provide C cycle assessments that explicitly apply to a defined time and place. We used an inventory-based forest monitoring and simulation tool to quantify C storage effects of actual fires, timber harvests, and forest regeneration conditions in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). Results show that (1) the 1988 fires had a larger impact on GYE's C storage than harvesting during 1985-2011; (2) continuation of relatively high harvest rates of the region's National Forest land, which declined after 1990, would have shifted the disturbance agent primary importance on those lands from fire to harvest; and (3) accounting for local heterogeneity of post-disturbance regeneration patterns translates into large regional effects on total C storage. Large fires in 1988 released about 8.3 ± 0.3 Mg/ha of C across Yellowstone National Park (YNP, including both disturbed and undisturbed area), compared with total C storage reductions due to harvest of about 2.3 ± 0.3 Mg/ha and 2.6 ± 0.2 Mg/ha in adjacent Caribou-Targhee and Gallatin National Forests, respectively, from 1985-2011. If the high harvest rates observed in 1985-1989 had been maintained through 2011 in GYE National Forests, the C storage effect of harvesting would have quintupled to 10.5 ± 1.0 Mg/ha, exceeding the immediate losses associated with YNP's historic fire but not the longer-term net loss of carbon (16.9 ± 0.8 Mg/ha). Following stand-replacing disturbance such as the 1988 fires, the actual regeneration rate was slower than the default regional average rate assumed by empirically calibrated forest growth models. If regeneration following the 1988 fire had reached regionally average rates, either through different natural circumstances or through more active management, YNP would have had approximately 4.1 Mg/ha more forest carbon by year 2020. This study highlights the relative effects of fire disturbances and management activities on regional C storage, and demonstrates a forest carbon monitoring system that can be both applied consistently across the US and tailored to questions of specific local management interest.

Impact of assisted vacations on female caregivers' burden Abstract. In everyday life, female caregivers experience various burdens due to their responsibilities and challenges. To relief and regenerate from the stressful daily routine, assisted vacations may be a viable option. Previously, there were no empirical findings available that focus on requirements and expectations of female caregivers. Neither do they provide information about the organisation nor do they provide information about the implementation of assisted vacations. The aim of the study was to collect data concerning the attitudes and expectations of female caregivers about assisted vacations to identify positive effects and elements. Ten problem-centered interviews with female caregivers, a group interview with four staff members of a supplier of assisted vacations, and one expert interview with the management of the supplier were operated. To analyse the gathered data the qualitative content analysis by 13-2Gläser & Laudel was conducted (2010). A specific anamnesis beforehand the assisted vacations, a continuous development of trust and relationships as well as a professional proactive support and take-over of nursing activities can help female caregivers to enjoy restful and relieving holidays. Six identified conditions contribute to experience a recreative assisted vacation. Staff members who accompany assisted vacations get lots of information about family caregivers. This could be used for ongoing support of family caregivers after the assisted vacations to reduce their burden.

No abstract available.

: media-1vid110.1542/5771272502001PEDS-VA_2018-0503

Midwives and Nurses in Early Childhood Intervention: The Benefit of Additional Qualification Abstract. Early childhood interventions are locally and regionally organized support services for families from pregnancy until the end of the third year of life. The interventions promote diverse measures to enhance parental skills in order to improve developmental and living circumstances. Midwives and nurses with additional qualification support burdened families in early childhood intervention. Within a retrospective survey (standardized interviews, CAPI) mothers' (N = 298) perspective of the benefit of the home visiting support is assessed. Data from two groups were compared: (1) mothers in the care of a midwife or nurse with additional qualification (Gruppe (1) Families with weighted levels of psychosocial burdens reported an enhanced need for help. (2) Midwives and nurses with additional qualification support more frequently families with high levels of psychosocial burdens. (3) Mothers with care of midwives and nurses with additional qualification reported this support as more useful in relation to every day demands than mothers with regular care after birth (questionnaire for evaluation of the received support: Gruppe The study complements results of national and international studies showing that families with high levels of psychosocial burdens accept home visiting support. Furthermore, this support seems to be useful. An increase of the offer and the additional qualification is recommended for improving the developmental and living conditions of families with psychosocial burdens.

Kidney stone disease (KSD) affects millions of people worldwide and has an increasing incidence. Social media (SoMe) and search engines are both gaining in usage, while also being used by patients to research their conditions and aid in managing them. With this in mind, many authors have expressed the belief that SoMe and search engines can be used by patients and healthcare professionals to improve treatment compliance and help counseling and management of conditions such as KSD. We wanted to determine whether SoMe and search engines play a role in the management and/or prevention of KSD. The databases MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, Scopus, and Cochrane Library were used to search for relevant English language literature from inception to December 2017. Results were screened by title, abstract, and then full text, according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The data were then analyzed independently by the authors not involved in the original study. After initial identification of 2137 records and screening of 42 articles, 10 studies met the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The articles included focused on a variety of SoMe forms, including two articles each on twitter, YouTube, smartphone apps, and Google search engine and one article on Google insights and Google analytics. Regarding patient centered advice, while two articles covered advice on dietary, fluid intake, and management options, two additional articles each covered advice on fluid advice and management options only, while no such advice was given by three of the SoMe published articles. SoMe and search engines provide valuable information to patients with KSD. However, while the information provided regarding dietary aspects and fluid management was good, it was not comprehensive enough to include advice on other aspects of KSD prevention.

In clinical practice and in research, there is an ongoing debate on how to return incidental and secondary findings of genetic tests to patients and research participants. Previous investigations have found that most of the people most of the time are in favor of full disclosure of results. Yet, the option to reject disclosure, based on the so-called right not to know, can be valuable especially for some vulnerable subgroups of recipients. In the present study we investigated variations in informational preferences in the context of genetic testing in a large and diverse German sample. This survey examined health care professionals, patients, participants of genetic counseling sessions and members of the general population (N = 518). Survey participants were assessed regarding their openness to learning about findings under various hypothetical scenarios, as well as their attitudes about the doctor-patient-relationship in a disclosure situation and about informational transfer to third parties. While the majority of participants wanted to learn about their findings, the extent of support of disclosure varied with features of the hypothetical diagnostic scenarios (e.g., controllability of disease; abstract vs. concrete scenario description) and demographic characteristics of the subjects. For example, subjects with higher levels of education were more selective with regards to the kind of information they want to receive than those with lower levels of education. We discuss implications of these findings for the debate about the right not to know and for the clinical practice of informed consent procedures.

Diseases as a `Stumbling Block` - a Case of Multimorbidity in Clinical Practice Abstract. Here we report on a 83 year-old patient with cardiac syncope and consecutive traumatic brain injury with intracranial haemorrhage receiving anticoagulation for recurrent pulmonary embolism: a 'medical dilemma' due to the syncope with consecutive traumatic event and the underlying condition. A pre-existing underlying cardiac disease was identified as the cause of the syncope and the intracranial haemorrhage was most likely due to oral anticoagulation for recurrent pulmonary embolisms. The intracranial bleeding inhibited an optimal management of the underlying cardiac condition and the patient deceased shortly thereafter.

Challenges of Digital Medicine Abstract. Digitization is increasingly covering more and more sectors, including medicine. To ensure medical operation 365 × 24 hours, progressively more human and financial resources are necessary. The transformation of patient histories from paper into electronic patient records focused initially on documentation. Today, hospital information systems are increasingly used as a platform for the communication of all professionals involved in the patient process - in Switzerland, however, so far without providing patients direct access to their data. Digititizing processes intend to increase efficiency, but also to enhance clinical and administrative decision support and quality assurance. The introduction of the electronic patient record in Switzerland in 2020 is expected to provide cross-company, more complete documentation of patient care. Multimorbid patients, often treated in different institutions and by different specialists, should benefit from this in particular. Advances in artificial intelligence offer new opportunities in medicine. Challenges include ensuring reliable data protection, and better interoperability of the systems involved. Semantically structured, machine-readable data exchange is a necessity for both networked services and internationally competitive research.

Fine particulate (PM Most of urban areas were observed to have population density increase/decrease along with PM

[No Abstract Available].

Prediction of binge drinking in young adults: a cohort study over nine years Abstract. Which person characteristics and environmental factors predict binge drinking at age 21? A longitudinal observational study with a nine-year follow-up. A total of 5,176 adolescents from the German states Schleswig-Holstein and Saxony-Anhalt were surveyed in 2006 with paper-pencil questionnaires (mean age 12.6 years, SD = 0.6). A follow-up assessment was conducted in the year 2015. Baseline predictors were age, gender, school type, school performance, parenting style, early experience with alcohol, alcohol use of parents, alcohol use of friends, and sensation seeking. Primary outcome in 2015 was binge drinking at least once a month (six or more alcoholic drinks during one drinking occasion). A subsample of 1,087 (20.9 %) of the former students could be surveyed nine years after baseline (mean age 21.6 years, SD = 0.8). One out of four (25.4 %) reported binge drinking at least once in a month. A multiple regression model revealed three significant predictors of binge drinking: male gender, early experience with alcohol and frequency of parental alcohol use at baseline. Perceived frequency of parental alcohol use might be an important risk factor for children's alcohol use in early adulthood. Parents need to reflect their role as alcohol-specific socialization agents.

The World Maternal Antifibrinolytic (WOMAN) Trial was the first in the UK to use the option of waiver of informed consent at the time of an obstetric emergency. This qualitative study aimed to investigate participants' views of the acceptability of the recruitment methods used. Qualitative study using in-depth interviews with women who did and did not give consent at the time of their recruitment to the WOMAN Trial. Highest UK recruitment site for the WOMAN Trial (129/569). Interviews were conducted in participants' homes. About 40 of the 129 women who were recruited to the WOMAN Trial at one UK site were invited to take part, 15 women were interviewed. Qualitative, interview study. Facilitators and barriers to successful recruitment during obstetric emergencies. Guidance for future researchers. Findings revealed that what is important is not so much the consent process used or a signature on a form, but the way in which consent is obtained. Clinicians who successfully negotiate consent to research during childbirth emergencies engage in a 'humane choreography' of words and actions. This emphasises the importance of prompt decision-making and treatment, while respecting the woman's personal situation and experience. Our findings do not support a single pathway to consent in the context of an obstetric emergency. Women understand that consent to research in an emergency is complex. Clinicians' skills in considering the clinical, ethical, and emotional aspects within the context of the clinical emergency can hamper or promote women's satisfaction. Study reports on women's views of consent to research in an obstetric emergency. Why and how was the study carried out? We undertook this study to find out what women thought about being included in a research study called the WOMAN Trial at the time they were being treated for heavy bleeding after giving birth. Some women had been asked if they wanted to be a part of the research at the time they were bleeding. Others were asked later, after they had recovered. We conducted interviews with 15 women who had been involved and asked what they thought about the way they had been asked, their preferences and ideas for improvements in future similar studies What were the main findings? Women understood how difficult it was for their doctors and midwives to ask them about the research study. They were pleased to have been included in the research and were mostly happy with the way they gave consent. Women's views were similar whether they were asked about the research at the time of the bleeding or after they had recovered. The most important thing was that doctors and midwives carefully thought about the situation the woman found herself in and how this might make her feel, so they could tailor their approach accordingly. What are the limitations of the work? This study only involved women from one hospital. The WOMAN Trial included women from many areas of the UK and other countries around the world. We do not know how their experiences or views may differ. What is the implication for professionals? Careful use of actions and words by birth attendants was the difference between a good or bad experience for the woman and her family. This is an important skill that could be developed as part of professional training.

As global environmental change drives inequitable health outcomes, novel health equity assessment methodologies are increasingly required. We review literatures on equity-focused HIA to clarify how equity is informing HIA practice, and to surface innovations for assessing health equity in relation to a range of exposures across geographic and temporal scales. A narrative review of the health equity and HIA literatures analysed English articles published between 2003 and 2017 across PubMed, PubMed Central, Biomed Central and Ovid Medline. Title and abstract reviews of 849 search results yielded 89 articles receiving full text review. Considerations of equity in HIA increased over the last 5 years, but equity continues to be conflated with health disparities rather than their root causes (i.e. inequities). Lessons from six literatures to inform future HIA practice are described: HIA for healthy cities, climate change vulnerability assessment, cumulative health risk assessment, intersectionality-based policy analysis, corporate health impact assessment and global health impact assessment. Academic reporting on incorporating equity in HIA practice has been limited. Nonetheless, significant methodological advancements are being made to examine the health equity implications of multiple environmental exposures.

Negative Symptoms in Schizophrenia - an Overview Abstract. Negative symptoms in schizophrenia comprise the symptom-dimensions of apathy (avolition, anhedonia and social withdrawal) and reduced expression (alogia and blunted affect). Negative symptoms are of a high relevance for the illness course, since they strongly affect functional outcome and quality of life. A diagnostic differentiation is recommended in primary negative symptoms (regarded as an integral part of schizophrenia) and secondary negative symptoms (regarded as a result of positive symptoms, comorbid depression, effects of antipsychotic medication, substance abuse or social deprivation). The following overview will present the various aspects of negative symptoms, the underlying pathophysiology and describe current diagnostic and therapeutic recommendations based on the concept of primary and secondary negative symptoms.

Addressing maladherence in schizophrenia Abstract. To prevent neurotoxic and demoralizing relapses in the course of schizophrenia maladherence was shown as one of the most important factors. Empirical evidence is presented and organized in a conceptual four level framework to organize an individually tailored approach to promote adherence more effectively and prevent the demoralizing function of classical insight by neglecting the underlying motivational processes in routine care. This four level framework to address maladherence encompasses (a) functional analysis of (mal-)adherence as an instrumental goal oriented behaviour, (b) addressing dysfunctional attitudes related to disorder and treatment,

To conduct a systematic literature review of caregiver burden in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). We searched Embase, Web of Science, and PubMed for full-text articles reporting results from studies of caregiver burden in DMD. We identified 483 unique publications. Of these, 450 were excluded after title and abstract screening, and 12 after full-text review. A total of 21 articles were included for data synthesis. Results encompassing more than 15 aspects of caregiver burden, investigated through surveys and/or interviews across 15 countries, were identified in the literature. Caregiving in DMD was frequently associated with impaired health-related quality of life, poor sleep quality, reduced family function, depression, pain, stress, sexual dysfunction, and/or lower self-esteem, as well as a considerable impact on work life and productivity. Providing informal care to a patient with DMD can be associated with a substantial burden. Yet, more research is needed to better understand the clinical implications of caregiving in DMD and the relationship between caregiver burden and the progression of the disease. Our data synthesis should be helpful in informing clinical and social support programmes directed to families caring for a patient with DMD. A substantial body of evidence describes caregiver burden in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Little is known of the family burden beyond caregivers' self-assessments.

Family relations and behavioral-emotional problems in adolescents - an analysis with the adolescent version of the Family Relations Test for Children and Adolescents Abstract. So far hardly any instruments are available for the German-speaking countries, covering family relations from the perspective of young people reliably. Moreover, the relationship between family relations from the perspective of young people and behavioral problems has been rarely investigated. Based on the Family Relations Test, which has been developed originally for children, the Family Relations Test for Children and Adolescents was developed in order to assess the family relations from the perspective of adolescents (94 items, 44 % newly developed). A clinical sample (n = 152) and a field sample (n = 132) was tested with this instrument and additionally behavioural problems of the adolescents were rated by the parents and the adolescents. The two-factor solution of the principal component analysis resulted in a clear distinction between two factors describing positive and negative family relations. The internal consistencies (Cronbach's Alpha) of the scales describing positive and negative relations are between .91 and .93. On these total scores young people from the clinic sample describe overall stronger negative relations in their families compared to young people in the field sample. Within the clinic sample moderate correlations between the extent of mental problems of young people rated by themselves and their parents could be found. Positive and negative relationships of young people to the individual family members and to all members of the family as a whole can be assessed reliably and factorially valid. As expected, significant correlations between negative family relations and mental problems could be found. The adolescent version of the Family Relations Test for Children and Adolescents proves to be a useful tool, to assess family relationships from the perspective of young people and thus to identify possible factors maintaining mental disorders of young people.

To synthesise and interpret previous findings with the aim of developing a theoretical framework for patient autonomy in a high-tech care context. Putting the somewhat abstract concept of patient autonomy into practice can prove difficult as when it is highlighted in healthcare literature, the patient perspective is often invisible. Autonomy presumes that a person has experience, education, self-discipline and decision-making capacity. Reference to autonomy in relation to patients in high-tech care environments could therefore be considered paradoxical, as in most cases, these persons are vulnerable, with impaired physical and/or metacognitive capacity, thus making extended knowledge of patient autonomy for these persons even more important. Theory development. The basic approaches in theory development by Walker and Avant were used to create a theoretical framework through an amalgamation of the results from three qualitative studies conducted previously by the same research group. A theoretical framework-the control-partnership-transition framework-was delineated disclosing different parts cocreating the prerequisites for patient autonomy in high-tech care environments. Assumptions and propositional statements that guide theory development were also outlined, as were guiding principles for use in day-to-day nursing care. Four strategies used by patients were revealed as follows: the strategy of control, the strategy of partnership, the strategy of trust and the strategy of transition. An extended knowledge base, founded on theoretical reasoning about patient autonomy, could facilitate nursing care that would allow people to remain/become autonomous in the role of patient in high-tech care environments. The control-partnership-transition framework would be of help in supporting and defending patient autonomy when caring for individual patients, as it provides an understanding of the strategies employed by patients to achieve autonomy in high-tech care contexts. The guiding principles for patient autonomy presented could be used in nursing guidelines.

The treatment of upper gastrointestinal cancer (UGIC) patients is complex. Patients are often elderly, comorbid as well as nutritionally depleted and treatment involves multimodality therapy incorporating chemotherapy, radiation therapy and surgery. The pre-treatment information requirements of UGIC patients are not clear but crucially important in ensuring they complete treatment successfully. A systematic review of the English language literature was performed to determine the specific information needs of patients with UGIC. Following abstract review and comprehensive analysis six articles were included. UGIC patients nominated information regarding post-operative recovery, quality of life, expected survival, management of post-operative symptoms and coping strategies for insurance and financial issues, relationships and family as being most important to them. Patients' families nominated information on the effects of diagnosis on patient well-being over the ensuing months and detailed information on available support services as being most important. One-on-one consultations with senior medical staff were the preferred method of information transfer followed by web-based information services. For effective treatment of UGIC patients, physicians and surgeons must address issues pertaining to quality of life, finance and relationships and may require specific training, or administrative support, in these areas.

The practice of special observation in adults in the German-speaking part of Switzerland - a descriptive cross-sectional study Abstract. Psychiatric Special Observation (PSO) is an intervention often used by nurses to prevent service users of harming themselves or to protect others. The intervention ranges between control and therapy and is resource intensive. Despite the widespread use of PSO, there is still no data on the practice of the intervention in Switzerland. What is the current practice of PSO in adults in psychiatric hospitals in the German-speaking part of Switzerland? Descriptive cross-sectional study. Nurses from inpatient psychiatric services in the German-speaking part of Switzerland completed a questionnaire based on a concept analysis of PSO. 538 questionnaires were analysed. PSO was more often conducted intermittent than as constant observation. In more than one out of four cases, suicidality reasoned as a cause for prescription. Nurses generally used standardized instruments to assess the risk of harming oneself or others. The duration of PSO lasted eight hours or more in three out of four cases. In every fifth case, there was no validation of the need of the intervention taking place during one shift. Nurses have a neutral attitude towards the intervention and are experiencing no or weak negative feelings during performance of PSO. The results suggest that there is an inconsistent performance of PSO in Switzerland as well as in other countries. The validation of the need of the intervention is insufficient. To facilitate PSO as a justified performance, the preparation of an interprofessional guideline is recommended.

To explore demographic, socio-economic, and reproductive factors associated with pregnancy desire among adolescents in five Latin American countries. Secondary analysis using nationally representative, cross-sectional data from UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS). Cuba, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Mexico, and Panama. Adolescents 15-19 years old who were pregnant or mothers (n = 4207). Chi-square tests, simple linear regressions, and multilevel Poisson regression models were used to estimate associations between individual- and country-level factors associated with pregnancy desire among adolescents. Desire for pregnancy among adolescents who were pregnant or had given birth in the last 2 years. The proportion of adolescents who reported they desired their last pregnancy ranged from 79.3% in Cuba to 37.6% in Panama; approximately half the adolescents in Mexico, El Salvador, and the Dominican Republic desired their last pregnancy. The multilevel analysis shows that pregnancy desire was more likely among adolescent women who were less educated [prevalence ratio (PR) = 0.97, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.96-0.98], older (PR = 1.39, 95% CI 1.04-1.09), married or cohabiting with a partner (PR = 0.70, 95% CI 0.53-0.93), and had low parity (PR = 0.67, 95% CI 0.58-0.76). Adolescents with less education, who are older, married or cohabiting, and with low parity were more likely to desire their pregnancy. These data constitute evidence that, in conjunction with qualitative and implementation research, can be used to better design services for adolescents so they can exercise their sexual and reproductive rights, and plan healthier and more satisfying futures. All the databases used on the performance of this study are open access. We did not receive any funding for the present analysis. Parity and marital status showed the strongest association with adolescent pregnancy desire in five Latin American countries.

Transportation infrastructure has an enormous impact on sustainable development. To identify multiple impacts of transportation infrastructure and show emerging trends and challenges, this paper presents a scientometric review based on 2543 published articles from 2000 to 2017 through co-author, co-occurring and co-citation analysis. In addition, the hierarchy of key concepts was analyzed to show emerging research objects, methods and levels according to the clustering information, which includes title, keyword and abstract. The results expressed by visual graphs compared high-impact authors, collaborative relationships among institutions in developed and developing countries. In addition, representative research issues related to the economy, society and environment were identified such as cost overrun, spatial economy, prioritizing structure, local development and land value. Additionally, two future directions, integrated research of various effects and structure analysis of transportation network, are recommended. The findings of this study provide researchers and practitioners with an in-depth understanding of transportation infrastructure's impacts on sustainable development by visual expression.

Across six studies, we demonstrate that exposure to biracial individuals significantly reduces endorsement of colorblindness as a racial ideology among White individuals. Real-world exposure to biracial individuals predicts lower levels of colorblindness compared with White and Black exposure (Study 1). Brief manipulated exposure to images of biracial faces reduces colorblindness compared with exposure to White faces, Black faces, a set of diverse monoracial faces, or abstract images (Studies 2-5). In addition, these effects occur only when a biracial label is paired with the face rather than resulting from the novelty of the mixed-race faces themselves (Study 4). Finally, we show that the shift in White participants' colorblindness attitudes is driven by social tuning, based on participants' expectations that biracial individuals are lower in colorblindness than monoracial individuals (Studies 5-6). These studies suggest that the multiracial population's increasing size and visibility has the potential to positively shift racial attitudes.

Lipid modification results in several benefits for the food industry, biotechnology advances and human health. Customizing bioactive lipids is very appealing because it improves the product's nutritional quality. Lipases are sustainable biocatalysts that can be reused, show selectivity towards substrates and reactions occur in mild conditions. We aimed at systematically searching for patents deposited worldwide, that approached the production of structured lipids by using lipases as biocatalysts. A patent-search strategy was set up in Questel-Orbit and the search strategy adopted was based on the combination of specific keywords in the title/abstract of the documents, encompassing thoroughly the search scope. We revised all patents relating structured lipids produced by enzyme reactions and provided an overview of the main objectives of the patents describing it, as well as a view of the principal depositors, years of publication and principal countries of deposit, as a mean to access the technological landscape on the subject. Forty-four documents, published over the last 34 years, were retrieved. Nine main patents' objectives were found, and the two major groups are: SL with bioactive properties and/or with fatty acids (FA) esterified at specific triacylglycerol positions and SL analogous of natural lipids. China, Japan and USA were the three main patent depositors. Although the number of patents retrieved was relatively low, this review indicates that SL production aiming at improvements in nutritional/health and/or physical attributes for food enhancement is a new field, and technological interest and innovation have been increasing over the last ten years.

Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) aims to temporarily replace much of the nicotine from cigarettes to reduce motivation to smoke and nicotine withdrawal symptoms, thus easing the transition from cigarette smoking to complete abstinence. To determine the effectiveness and safety of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), including gum, transdermal patch, intranasal spray and inhaled and oral preparations, for achieving long-term smoking cessation, compared to placebo or 'no NRT' interventions. We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group trials register for papers mentioning 'NRT' or any type of nicotine replacement therapy in the title, abstract or keywords. Date of most recent search is July 2017. Randomized trials in people motivated to quit which compared NRT to placebo or to no treatment. We excluded trials that did not report cessation rates, and those with follow-up of less than six months, except for those in pregnancy (where less than six months, these were excluded from the main analysis). We recorded adverse events from included and excluded studies that compared NRT with placebo. Studies comparing different types, durations, and doses of NRT, and studies comparing NRT to other pharmacotherapies, are covered in separate reviews. Screening, data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessment followed standard Cochrane methods. The main outcome measure was abstinence from smoking after at least six months of follow-up. We used the most rigorous definition of abstinence for each trial, and biochemically validated rates if available. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) for each study. Where appropriate, we performed meta-analysis using a Mantel-Haenszel fixed-effect model. We identified 136 studies; 133 with 64,640 participants contributed to the primary comparison between any type of NRT and a placebo or non-NRT control group. The majority of studies were conducted in adults and had similar numbers of men and women. People enrolled in the studies typically smoked at least 15 cigarettes a day at the start of the studies. We judged the evidence to be of high quality; we judged most studies to be at high or unclear risk of bias but restricting the analysis to only those studies at low risk of bias did not significantly alter the result. The RR of abstinence for any form of NRT relative to control was 1.55 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.49 to 1.61). The pooled RRs for each type were 1.49 (95% CI 1.40 to 1.60, 56 trials, 22,581 participants) for nicotine gum; 1.64 (95% CI 1.53 to 1.75, 51 trials, 25,754 participants) for nicotine patch; 1.52 (95% CI 1.32 to 1.74, 8 trials, 4439 participants) for oral tablets/lozenges; 1.90 (95% CI 1.36 to 2.67, 4 trials, 976 participants) for nicotine inhalator; and 2.02 (95% CI 1.49 to 2.73, 4 trials, 887 participants) for nicotine nasal spray. The effects were largely independent of the definition of abstinence, the intensity of additional support provided or the setting in which the NRT was offered. A subset of six trials conducted in pregnant women found a statistically significant benefit of NRT on abstinence close to the time of delivery (RR 1.32, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.69; 2129 participants); in the four trials that followed up participants post-partum the result was no longer statistically significant (RR 1.29, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.86; 1675 participants). Adverse events from using NRT were related to the type of product, and include skin irritation from patches and irritation to the inside of the mouth from gum and tablets. Attempts to quantitatively synthesize the incidence of various adverse effects were hindered by extensive variation in reporting the nature, timing and duration of symptoms. The odds ratio (OR) of chest pains or palpitations for any form of NRT relative to control was 1.88 (95% CI 1.37 to 2.57, 15 included and excluded trials, 11,074 participants). However, chest pains and palpitations were rare in both groups and serious adverse events were extremely rare. There is high-quality evidence that all of the licensed forms of NRT (gum, transdermal patch, nasal spray, inhalator and sublingual tablets/lozenges) can help people who make a quit attempt to increase their chances of successfully stopping smoking. NRTs increase the rate of quitting by 50% to 60%, regardless of setting, and further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of the effect. The relative effectiveness of NRT appears to be largely independent of the intensity of additional support provided to the individual. Provision of more intense levels of support, although beneficial in facilitating the likelihood of quitting, is not essential to the success of NRT. NRT often causes minor irritation of the site through which it is administered, and in rare cases can cause non-ischaemic chest pain and palpitations.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Euthanasia because of unbearable mental suffering (UMS euthanasia) has been legal in Belgium since 2002 under strict conditions of careful practice. UMS euthanasia occurs fairly rarely in Belgium, but the frequency has increased substantially over the past few years. Although most mental health nurses play an important role and are supportive of euthanasia in general, their role, attitude and knowledge when it comes to UMS euthanasia were unknown until now. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Most mental health nurses in Belgium appear to be supportive towards UMS euthanasia and where UMS euthanasia is carried out, mental health nurses are often involved in the preceding decision-making process. Mental health nurses critically reflect on the interpretation and application of the legal euthanasia criteria as experienced in their daily work with their patients, and identify several problems. After a rather quiet period in Belgium, the public ethical debate regarding UMS euthanasia has recently been reopened and intensified. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Sufficient attention must be paid to how mental health nurses can be involved in the process of UMS euthanasia. This applies at several levels: legal, healthcare policy, bedside care and education. Specific attention must be paid within the UMS euthanasia process to ensure adequate cooperation between physicians, nurses and patients. There is a need for proper training in: knowledge of psychiatric pathologies and remaining treatment options; communication skills; the legal framework and all its difficulties; transdisciplinary and multicultural approaches; ethical reflection and how nurses handle their own emotions. Introduction Euthanasia because of unbearable mental suffering (UMS euthanasia) has been legal in Belgium since 2002, under certain circumstances that govern careful practice. Despite the legal framework, there are specific difficulties and concerns regarding UMS euthanasia. Mental health nurses are often involved in the process, but little is known about their attitudes towards UMS euthanasia, their role and their knowledge. Aim To determine the attitudes, role and knowledge of mental health nurses regarding UMS euthanasia. Methods A cross-sectional survey was performed at a convenience sample of four psychiatric hospitals in Belgium (n = 133) as a pilot study. Self-administered questionnaires were provided to mental health nurses. Results Half the nurses in our sample had been involved at least once in the process of UMS euthanasia. A large majority of mental health nurses were supportive of UMS euthanasia. Nurses show differences in attitudes related to the different psychiatric pathologies of the patients, and in whether or not minors are involved. In some cases, they believed that the mental suffering of psychiatric patients can be unbearable and irreversible and that psychiatric patients can be competent to voluntarily request UMS euthanasia. Nurses stated that they have an important role in the UMS euthanasia process, but also demanded more knowledge and clear guidelines to implement the procedure. Discussion Nurses have a key role regarding UMS euthanasia but face several challenges: the recent process, resistance to a multidisciplinary approach by psychiatrists and an unclear role defined by the legal framework. Nurses do not appear to have a common voice on the topic and the development of clear guidelines appears to be essential. Social recovery can offer a way out of an UMS euthanasia request, but it will not always offer a solution. Implications for Practice Sufficient attention must be paid to how mental health nurses can be involved in the process of UMS euthanasia at various levels: bedside practice, healthcare management, education and policy. A form of systematic cooperation between nurses, physicians and patients can contribute to the utmost careful decision-making process needed in these cases. There is a need for proper training in: knowledge of psychiatric pathologies and remaining treatment options; communication skills; the legal framework and all its difficulties; transdisciplinary and multicultural approaches; ethical reflection and how nurses handle their own emotions.

Dental caries is one of the most common oral diseases affecting children. The complex multifactorial aetiology of caries involves host (saliva composition and tooth enamel characteristics), oral microflora and substrate (oral hygiene quality and dietary habits composition). Occlusal characteristics may be also a factor in dental caries development. The aim of this aepidemiologic study was to verify the association between DMFT (Decayed, Missed, Filled Teeth) index and occlusal characteristics, dietary habits, oral hygiene habits and parents' education level in a sample of 12-year-old schoolchildren from Southern Italy. A sample of 536 children was examined to detect dental caries status and several occlusal variables (i.e. molar relationship, overjet and overbite, presence of crossbite, scissor bite, crowding, diastemas and/or midline deviation). A questionnaire to retrieve parents' educational level, patient's dietary and oral hygiene habits was administered. The associations among these variables were assessed statistically through the ?2 test. A positive association was found between caries, parents' social status and some occlusal disorders. va specificato, l'abstract non può essere una caccia al tesoro. In relation to occlusal variables, crossbite (?2=3.96, P=0.04) was significantly associated to caries. A significant association was also found between the education level of mothers (?2=7.74, P<0.01) and fathers (?2=6.35, P=0.01) and the presence of caries. Dietary habits, oral hygiene and remaining occlusal characteristics were not associated with caries presence (all P>0.05). Of the evaluated occlusal characteristics only posterior crossbite was associated with caries prevalence. Education level of the parents was the other factor significantly associated with caries. Dietary habits, oral hygiene frequency and the remaining occlusal characteristics were not associated with dental caries.

To estimate the intergenerational association in teenage pregnancy, and whether there is a coupling tendency between a mother and daughter in how their teen pregnancies end, such as a termination of pregnancy (TOP) versus a live birth. Population-based cohort study. Ontario, Canada. A total of 15 097 mothers and their 16 177 daughters. Generalised estimating equations generated adjusted odds ratios (aOR) of a daughter experiencing a teen pregnancy in relation to the number of teen pregnancies her mother had. Multinomial logistic regression estimated the odds that a teen pregnancy ended with TOP among both mother and daughter. All models were adjusted for maternal age and world region of origin, the daughter's socio-demographic characteristics and comorbidities, mother-daughter cohabitation, and neighbourhood-level teen pregnancy rate. Teen pregnancy in the daughter, between ages 15 and 19 years, and also the nature of the daughter's teen pregnancy, categorised as (1) no teen pregnancy, (2) at least one teen pregnancy, all exclusively ending with a live birth, and (3) at least one teen pregnancy, with at least one teen pregnancy ending with a TOP. The proportion of daughters having a teen pregnancy among those whose mother had zero, one, two, or at least three teen pregnancies was 16.3, 24.9, 33.5 and 36.3%, respectively. The aOR of a daughter having a teen pregnancy was 1.42 (95% CI 1.25-1.61) if her mother had one, 1.97 (95% CI 1.71-2.26) if she had two, and 2.17 (95% CI 1.84-2.56) if her mother had three or more teen pregnancies, relative to none. If a mother had at least one teen pregnancy ending with TOP, then her daughter had an aOR of 2.12 (95% CI 1.76-2.56) for having a teen pregnancy also ending with TOP; whereas, if a mother had at least one teen pregnancy, all ending with a live birth, then her daughter had an aOR of 1.73 (95% CI 1.46-2.05) for that same outcome. There is a strong intergenerational occurrence of teenage pregnancy between a mother and daughter, including a coupling tendency in how the pregnancy ends. Strong intergenerational association for teenage pregnancy between mother and daughter.

: media-1vid110.1542/5754332180001PEDS-VA_2017-3872 National Poison Data System data from 2000 through 2014 were retrospectively analyzed to examine pediatric ADHD medication exposures. From 2000 through 2014, there were 156 365 exposures reported to US poison control centers related to ADHD medications. The overall rate of reported exposures increased 71.2% from 2000 to 2011, followed by a 6.2% decrease from 2011 to 2014. Three-fourths (76.0%) of exposures involved children ≤12 years old. Methylphenidate and amphetamine medications accounted for 46.2% and 44.5% of exposures, respectively. The most common reason for exposure was therapeutic error (41.6%). Intentional medication exposures (including suspected suicide and medication abuse and/or misuse) were reported most often among adolescents (13-19 years old), accounting for 50.2% of exposures in this age group. Overall, the majority of exposed individuals (60.4%) did not receive health care facility treatment; however, 6.2% were admitted to a hospital for medical treatment, and there were 3 deaths. The increasing number and rate of reported ADHD medication exposures during the study period is consistent with increasing trends in ADHD diagnosis and medication prescribing. Exposures associated with suspected suicide or medication abuse and/or misuse among adolescents are of particular concern. Unintentional and intentional pediatric exposures to ADHD medications are an increasing problem in the United States, affecting children of all ages.

Multidisciplinary care is critical for the successful treatment of stage III colorectal cancer, yet receipt of adjuvant chemotherapy remains unacceptably low. Peer support, or exposure to others treated for colorectal cancer, has been proposed as a means to improve patient acceptance of cancer care. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effect of peer support on the attitudes of patients with colorectal cancer toward chemotherapy and their adherence to it. We conducted a population-based survey of patients with sage III colorectal cancer and compared demographics and adjuvant chemotherapy adherence after patient-reported exposure to peer support. Patients were identified by using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program cancer registries and were recruited 3 to 12 months after cancer resection. All patients with stage III colorectal cancer who underwent colorectal resection between 2011 and 2013 and were located in the Detroit and Georgia regions were included. The main outcome measure was adjuvant chemotherapy adherence. Exposure to peer support was an intermediate outcome. Among 1301 patient respondents (68% response rate), 48% reported exposure to peer support. Exposure to peer support was associated with younger age, higher income, and having a spouse or domestic partner. Exposure to peer support was significantly associated with receipt of adjuvant chemotherapy (OR, 2.94; 95% CI, 1.89-4.55). Those exposed to peer support reported positive effects on attitudes toward chemotherapy. This study has limitations inherent to survey research including the potential lack of generalizability and responses that are subject to recall bias. Additionally, the survey results do not allow for determination of the temporal relationship between peer support exposure and receipt of chemotherapy. Our study demonstrates that exposure to peer support is associated with higher adjuvant chemotherapy adherence. These data suggest that facilitated peer support programs could positively influence patient expectations and coping with diagnosis and treatment, thereby affecting the uptake of postoperative chemotherapy. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A587.

: media-1vid110.1542/5754332185001PEDS-VA_2017-2312 We audio-recorded 43 visits with unvaccinated adolescents at 6 pediatric clinics in Dallas, Texas in which parents were undecided about HPV vaccination. We qualitatively coded how parents verbally expressed hesitancy (assertive response, asking a question, or expressing concern) and whether providers responded with acquiescence (agree to defer vaccination) and/or persistence (continue discussion). We described the frequency of parent and provider communication codes and same-day vaccination. Among the 43 visits, 37 parents expressed hesitancy ≥1 times in many ways. Assertive responses were most common (27 visits), followed by questions (16 visits), and concerns (12 visits). When the first expression of hesitancy was a question or concern, 71% and 75% of adolescents, respectively, received same-day vaccinations, whereas 33% of adolescents who received an initial assertive response were vaccinated. Providers responded with only persistence in 18 visits, a mix of acquiescence and persistence in 13 visits, and only acquiescence in 6 visits. When providers only used persistence, 17 of 18 adolescents were vaccinated; when providers responded with only acquiescence, no adolescents received the vaccine. Our exploratory analysis reveals that providers engaging hesitant parents and addressing their concerns can lead to same-day HPV vaccination. Data reveal that even parents making assertive statements are amenable to influence by providers. Our findings reveal an important missed opportunity when providers simply acquiesce to parental hesitation.

: media-1vid110.1542/5745216462001PEDS-VA_2017-3491 A national US sample of 610 parents with at least 1 child between ages 6 and 17 was randomly assigned to view a series of four 90-second video clips from popular films depicting violent gun use under either justified or unjustified conditions. Graphic consequences were removed to mimic the violence common in PG-13 movies. Parents reported their perceived justification for the violence, their emotional reaction while viewing it, the minimum age they would consider appropriate for viewing the film, and whether they would allow their own child to view it. Predictors included experimental condition, viewing order, child age, and recent moviegoing. Growth curve modeling determined the effects of the predictors on both intercepts and slopes of viewing order. Parents were less emotionally upset and more accepting of child viewing for justified than unjustified gun violence, with perceptions of justification better predictors of parental restriction than emotion. Nevertheless, with the exception of parents with extensive moviegoing habits, parents viewed justified violence as appropriate for adolescents starting at age 15, older than the PG-13 rating suggests. Parents are less restrictive of child viewing of gun violence in PG-13 movies when it features characters whose weapon use is seen as justified. The apparent acceptance of rising gun violence in PG-13 movies may be partly attributable to the perception that the violence in those films is justified.

Initial theory and research examining children's implicit racial attitudes suggest that an implicit preference favoring socially advantaged groups emerges early in childhood and remains stable across development (Dunham, Baron, & Banaji, 2008). In two studies, we examined the ubiquity of this theory by measuring non-Black minority and non-White majority children's implicit racial attitudes toward White and Black racial outgroups in two distinct cultural contexts. In Study 1, non-Black minority children in an urban North American community with a large Black population showed an implicit pro-White (versus Black) bias in early childhood. Contrary to previous findings, the magnitude of this bias was lower among older children. In Study 2, Malay (majority) and Chinese (minority) children and adults in the Southeast Asian country of Brunei, with limited contact with White or Black peers, showed an implicit pro-White (versus Black) bias in early childhood. However, the magnitude of bias was greater for adults. Together, these findings support initial theorizing about the early development of implicit intergroup cognition, but suggest that context may affect these biases across development to a greater extent than was previously thought. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vgQP8e4MSCk&feature=youtu.be.

Motorcyclists are involved in a disproportionate number of crashes given the distance they travel, with a high proportion of these crashes occurring at junctions. Despite car drivers being solely responsible for many road crashes involving a motorcycle, previous research has mostly focussed on understanding motorcyclists' attitudes towards their own safety. We compared car drivers' (n = 102) and motorcyclists' (n = 579) opinions about junction crashes using a web-based questionnaire. Motorcyclists and car drivers were recruited in similar ways so that responses could be directly compared, accessing respondents through driver/rider forums and on social media. Car drivers' and motorcyclists' opinions were compared in relation to who they believe to be blameworthy in situations which varied in specificity, ranging from what road user they believe is most likely to cause a motorcyclist to have a road crash, to what road user is at fault in four specific scenarios involving a car and motorcycle at a junction. Two of these scenarios represented typical 'Right of way' (ROW) crashes with a motorcycle approaching from the left and right, and two scenarios involved a motorcycle overtaking another vehicle at the junction, known as 'Motorcycle Manoeuvrability Accidents' (MMA). Qualitative responses were analysed using LIWC software to detect objective differences in car drivers' and motorcyclists' language. Car drivers' and motorcyclists' opinions about the blameworthiness of accidents changed depending on how specific the situation was that was being presented. When respondents were asked about the cause of motorcycle crashes in a general abstract sense, car drivers' and motorcyclists' responses significantly differed, with motorcyclists more likely to blame car drivers, demonstrating an in-group bias. However, this in-group favouritism was reduced when asked about specific scenarios, especially in MMA situations which involve motorcyclists manoeuvring their motorcycles around cars at a junction. In the four specific scenarios, car drivers were more likely to blame the car driver, and motorcyclists were more likely to blame the motorcyclist. In the typical ROW scenarios, the responses given by both road users, as analysed by the LIWC, show that the law is taken into account, as well as a large emphasis on the lack of observation given around junctions, especially from car drivers. It is concluded that the perception of blameworthiness in crashes is very much dependent on the details of the crash, with a more specific situation eliciting a fairer evaluation by both car drivers and motorcyclists.

The mode of delivery for women with a previous cesarean delivery remains contentious. We conducted a study comparing maternal and infant outcomes after attempted vaginal birth after cesarean delivery versus elective repeat cesarean delivery. We used data from the Discharge Abstract Database that includes all hospital deliveries in Canada (excluding Quebec). In our analysis, we included singleton deliveries to women between 37 and 43 weeks gestation who had a single prior cesarean delivery between April 2003 and March 2015. The primary outcomes were severe maternal morbidity and mortality, and serious neonatal morbidity and mortality. We used logistic regression to estimate adjusted rate ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Absolute rates of severe maternal morbidity and mortality were low but significantly higher after attempted vaginal birth after cesarean delivery compared with elective repeat cesarean delivery (10.7 v. 5.65 per 1000 deliveries, respectively; adjusted RR 1.96, 95% CI 1.76 to 2.19). Adjusted rate differences in severe maternal morbidity and mortality, and serious neonatal morbidity and mortality were small (5.42 and 7.09 per 1000 deliveries, respectively; number needed to treat 184 and 141, respectively). The association between vaginal birth after cesarean delivery, and serious neonatal morbidity and mortality showed a temporal worsening (adjusted RR 0.94, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.15 in 2003-2005; adjusted RR 2.07, 95% CI 1.83 to 2.35 in 2012-2014). Although absolute rates of adverse outcomes are low, attempted vaginal birth after cesarean delivery continues to be associated with higher relative rates of severe morbidity and mortality in mothers and infants. Temporal worsening of infant outcomes after attempted vaginal birth after cesarean delivery highlights the need for greater care in selecting candidates, and more careful monitoring of labour and delivery.

Consumers are known to spend both time and money. These two resources are often seen as economically comparable because the value of one's time can be equated to a monetary amount, such as one's wage rate. Recent research suggests that even when time and money are economically equivalent, they are psychologically different. We discuss how time (versus money) leads to decision making that is more heuristic rather than systematic, to an orientation that is more emotional rather than value-maximizing, to a thinking process that is more holistic rather than analytic, and to a mindset that is more abstract rather than concrete. Implications arise for a variety of domains such as consumer search, happiness, product evaluation, and charitable giving.

Parallel measurements of PM

International comparison of complete uterine rupture. Descriptive multi-country population-based study. International. International Network of Obstetric Survey Systems (INOSS). We merged individual data, collected prospectively in nine population-based studies, of women with complete uterine rupture, defined as complete disruption of the uterine muscle and the uterine serosa, regardless of symptoms and rupture of fetal membranes. Prevalence of complete uterine rupture, regional variation and correlation with rates of caesarean section (CS) and trial of labour after CS (TOLAC). Severe maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. We identified 864 complete uterine ruptures in 2 625 017 deliveries. Overall prevalence was 3.3 (95% CI 3.1-3.5) per 10 000 deliveries, 22 (95% CI 21-24) in women with and 0.6 (95% CI 0.5-0.7) in women without previous CS. Prevalence in women with previous CS was negatively correlated with previous CS rate (ρ = -0.917) and positively correlated with TOLAC rate of the background population (ρ = 0.600). Uterine rupture resulted in peripartum hysterectomy in 87 of 864 women (10%, 95% CI 8-12%) and in a perinatal death in 116 of 874 infants (13.3%, 95% CI 11.2-15.7) whose mother had uterine rupture. Overall rate of neonatal asphyxia was 28% in neonates who survived. Higher prevalence of complete uterine ruptures per TOLAC was observed in countries with low previous CS and high TOLAC rates. Rates of hysterectomy and perinatal death are about 10% following complete uterine rupture, but in women undergoing TOLAC the rates are extremely low (only 2.2 and 3.2 per 10 000 TOLACs, respectively.) TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: Prevalence of complete uterine rupture is higher in countries with low previous CS and high TOLAC rates.

As key population groups in HIV infection, transgender women (TGW) share the same oral and anal sexual practices with men who have sex with men (MSM). However, the differences in HIV rates between the two groups are still unclear. In our study, relevant publications were electronically searched in three databases. After excluding irrelevant studies based on review of the title, abstract, and full text, a total of 24 studies, including 37,521 cases, were identified. There were no significant differences between TGW and MSM regarding HIV status and condom use. However, TGW had a higher proportion of high-risk behaviors, including exchanges of sex, forced sex, receptive intercourse, and sex work experience. Moreover, most curable sexually transmitted diseases were more prevalent in the TGW group compared to MSM. Although TGW showed a higher proportion of high-risk behavior and sexually transmitted disease incidence, their HIV incidence was the same as that for MSM.

: media-1vid110.1542/5741323271001PEDS-VA_2017-3651 Between May 2013 and July 2016, we assessed 49 SIDS-bereaved mothers living in informal settlements near Cape Town, South Africa, and on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation and 359 SIDS-bereaved mothers affiliated with SIDS parent-support organizations in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and the Netherlands. We examined PGD symptom severity and diagnostic prevalence rates between the samples and other significant grief indicators during the period 2 to 48 months after the deaths of their infants. Extremely high, persistent, and similar rates of PGD were found in both samples at every time interval. The prevalence of PGD was 50.0% in either sample (mean months from loss: 20.5 vs 24.9). Daily, intrusive emotional pain or yearning was found in 68.1% of subjects; yearning was significantly associated with emotional pain ( Severe symptoms and heightened risk for PGD was seen in mothers after their infants died of SIDS, with discernible symptom profiles. Given their involvement with families after SIDS, pediatricians may have a unique role in identifying this problem and helping address its consequences.

To assess the effect of mining pollution on birthweight. A retrospective before-and-after study with an untreated comparison group. La Oroya, a mining town in the Peruvian Andes, considered the most contaminated town in the Andean region. All pregnant women who delivered in the social security healthcare system in years 2005, 2006, 2008 and 2009. A total of 214 983 births records were used, 957 from La Oroya and 214 026 from the rest of the country. A difference-in-difference estimation is used to assess the effect of mining pollution on birthweight before and after two business policy changes: a partial environmental improvement and a subsequent closure of smelter operations in La Oroya. Birthweight was compared with a group not affected by the environmental changes in La Oroya. Birthweight in grams. A steep reduction in mining pollution due to the closure of smelter operations in La Oroya showed an increased birthweight of 71.6 g after controlling for socio-economic and medical characteristics. None of the environmental improvements prior to the closure had a statistically significant effect on birthweight. Mining pollution in La Oroya had a negative impact on birthweight. Partial environmental improvements were not enough to improve birthweight. Only after the closure of all mining and smelter operations in La Oroya was a significant gain in birthweight shown. The closure of the most contaminated mine site in the Andean region increased birthweight by 72 g.

Abstract Background Empathic concern has been found to decline in health professional students. Few effective educational programs and a lack of validated scales are reported. Previous analysis of the Empathic Concern scale of the Emotional Response Questionnaire has reported both one and two latent constructs. Aim To evaluate the impact of simulation on nursing students' empathic concern and test the psychometric properties of the Empathic Concern scale. Methods The study used a one group pre-test post-test design with a convenience sample of 460 nursing students. Empathic concern was measured pre-post simulation with the Empathic Concern scale. Factor Analysis was undertaken to investigate the structure of the scale. Results There was a statistically significant increase in Empathic Concern scores between pre-simulation 5.57 (SD = 1.04) and post-simulation 6.10 (SD = 0.95). Factor analysis of the Empathic Concern scale identified one latent dimension. Conclusion Immersive simulation may promote empathic concern. The Empathic Concern scale measured a single latent construct in this cohort.

The participation of general practitioners (GPs) in primary care research is variable and often poor. We aimed to develop a substantive and empirical theoretical framework to explain GPs' decision-making process to participate in research. We used the grounded theory approach to construct a substantive theory to explain the decision-making process of GPs to participate in research activities. Five in-depth interviews and four focus group discussions were conducted among 21 GPs. Purposeful sampling followed by theoretical sampling were used to attempt saturation of the core category. Data were collected using semi-structured open-ended questions. Interviews were recorded, transcribed verbatim and checked prior to analysis. Open line-by-line coding followed by focus coding were used to arrive at a substantive theory. Memoing was used to help bring concepts to higher abstract levels. The GPs' decision to participate in research was attributed to their inner drive and appreciation for primary care research and their confidence in managing their social and research environments. The drive and appreciation for research motivated the GPs to undergo research training to enhance their research knowledge, skills and confidence. However, the critical step in the GPs' decision to participate in research was their ability to align their research agenda with priorities in their social environment, which included personal life goals, clinical practice and organisational culture. Perceived support for research, such as funding and technical expertise, facilitated the GPs' participation in research. In addition, prior experiences participating in research also influenced the GPs' confidence in taking part in future research. The key to GPs deciding to participate in research is whether the research agenda aligns with the priorities in their social environment. Therefore, research training is important, but should be included in further measures and should comply with GPs' social environments and research support.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Mental healthcare requires acceptance of suicide and flexible attitudes especially in relation to caring for people who have suicidal thoughts or who have attempted suicide. Nurse education programmes for student nurses can shape positively the attitudes of individual participants, yet limited research exists on what nursing students' attitudes currently are towards people who are suicidal. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper adds to the developing international comparative work that is providing a greater understanding of cultural perceptions of suicide amongst students. This paper along with existing literature highlights a potential relationship between certain religious belief systems and their potential to be protective against suicide. At the same time, such religious belief is more likely to be associated with more judgmental attitude towards suicidal behaviour. This paper using a validated research tool, devised by a research psychologist, scored for the first time, individual student attitudes towards caring for people that are suicidal, whilst establishing the overall differences between the two countries from which the data are collected. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This paper offers potential explanations for differences in nursing students' attitudes between the UK and Turkey. Disparities under discussion include gender, type of education, culture and religion. This is an important discussion in the consideration of nurse education worldwide. It is recognized that students may come from a variety of different backgrounds, with varying personal and social attitudes to begin with; yet, there exists the potential to positively influence overall attitudes towards service users whilst learners are still within a training programme, consisting of education and practice experiences. The merits of a specialist mental health nurse training programme and its potential to impact more favourably on students attitudes deserve more attention and research. Introduction Suicide is a major public health issue internationally, and the impact of positive or negative attitudes amongst the mental health professional workforce warrants scrutiny. The study aimed to examine English and Turkish nursing students' attitudes towards people with suicidal behaviour. Method This cross-cultural study reports on attitudes of 240 nursing students towards suicide in Turkey and 82 nursing students in the UK. A reliable and valid 24 item "Attitudes towards Suicide Scale" and "Social Reactions to Suicidal Persons Scale" were used to measure attitudes. Results The UK nursing students were found to display more accepting attitudes to suicide, and scored higher on acceptability of suicide, seeing suicide as a solution and open reporting and discussion of suicide subscales than their Turkish counterparts. Turkish nursing students scored higher on punishment after death and hiding suicidal behaviour subscales than the UK students. Turkish nursing students scored significantly higher on deterring subscale of reactions to a suicidal peer scale than the UK nursing students. Implications for practice It is vital for nurse students to develop positive acceptance of suicide through education, reflection and clinical supervision to be more therapeutic towards suicidal patients.

Understanding what leads people to reverse their choices is important in many domains. We introduce a contrast paradigm for studying reversals in choices-here between pairs of abstract paintings-implemented in both within-subject (Experiment 1; N = 320) and between-subject (Experiment 2; N = 384) designs. On each trial, participants chose between a pair of paintings. A critical pair of average-beauty paintings was presented before and after either a reversal or control block. In the reversal block, we made efforts to bias preference away from the chosen average-beauty painting (by pairing it with more-beautiful paintings) and toward the non-chosen average-beauty painting (by pairing it with less-beautiful paintings). Meta-analysis revealed more reversals after reversal blocks than after control blocks, though only when the biasing manipulations succeeded. A second meta-analysis revealed that reversals were generally more likely for participants who later misidentified their initial choice, demonstrating that memory for initial choices influences later choices. Thus, the contrast paradigm has utility both for inducing choice reversals and identifying their causes.

We investigate how people form attitudes and make decisions without having extensive knowledge about a technology. We argue that it is impossible for people to carefully study all technologies they encounter and that they are forced to use inferences to make decisions. When people are confronted with an intangible abstract technology, the only visible attribute is the name. This name can determine which inferences a person will use. Considering these inferences is important: first, a name will reach consumers before detailed information, if any, will. Second, if detailed information reaches consumers, the hard-to-comprehend information is processed using pre-activated attitudes and beliefs. Using the available literature, we explore the impact a name can have on the interpretation of a technology. We argue that science communication can benefit from trying to develop a name for a technology that activates proper beliefs to guide non-experts to a more meaningful understanding of it.

Extralegal factors may influence judicial outcomes. Here we investigated the experience of incidental haptic sensations on the harshness of punishment recommendations. Based on recent theories of embodiment, which claim that cognitive representations are structured by metaphorical mappings from sensory experience, we hypothesized that tactile priming with hard objects would cause subjects to recommend harsher sentences (to be 'hard on crime'). Furthermore, the theory of embodiment predicts that this effect should be based on sensorimotor brain activation during the judging process. In order to test this we presented participants with scenarios that described various crimes while scanning their brain activity with fMRI. Participants were then asked to rate how severely they would sentence the delinquents. Before the scenarios, the participants were primed by touching either a hard or a soft object. Results revealed tha t hard priming led participants to recommend harder punishments. These results were accompanied by activation of somatosensory brain areas during the judging phase. This outcome is in line with simulation assumptions of the embodiment theory and proposes a central role of the sensorimotor cortices for embodied metaphors. Thus, incidental tactile experiences can influence our abstract cognitions and even how hard we are on criminals.

People's political attitudes tend to fall into two groups: progressive and conservative. Moral Politics Theory asserts that this ideological divide is the product of two contrasting moral worldviews, which are conceptually anchored in individuals' cognitive models about ideal parenting and family life. These models, here labeled the strict and nurturant models, serve as conceptual templates for how society should function, and dictate whether one will endorse more conservative or progressive positions. According to Moral Politics Theory, individuals map their parenting ideals onto the societal domain by engaging the nation-as-family metaphor, which facilitates reasoning about the abstract social world (the nation) in terms of more concrete world experience (family life). In the present research, we conduct an empirical examination of these core assertions of Moral Politics Theory. In Studies 1-3, we experimentally test whether family ideals directly map onto political attitudes while ruling out alternative explanations. In Studies 4-5, we use both correlational and experimental methods to examine the nation-as-family metaphor's role in facilitating the translation of family beliefs into societal beliefs and, ultimately, political attitudes. Overall, we found consistent support for Moral Politics Theory's assertions that family ideals directly impact political judgment, and that the nation-as-family metaphor serves a mediating role in this phenomenon.

People with low health literacy are more likely to delay seeking care and experience adverse outcomes. While health literacy is the product of individuals' capacities, it is also affected by the complexities of the health care system. System-level changes are needed to align health care demands better with the public's skills and abilities. We aimed to identify the evidence base for effective strategies for creating health literate organisations. A systematic review and narrative synthesis of empirical studies was performed. Medline, Embase, PsychInfo and CINHAL databases were searched for empirical studies from OECD countries published from 2008 onwards, focusing on health literacy interventions at the organisational level. Analysis of the findings was informed by the National Academies' five-dimensional framework for the attributes of a health literate organisation, which include: organisational commitment, accessible education and technology infrastructure, augmented workforce, embedded policies and practices, and effective bidirectional communication. The title and abstract of 867 records were screened according to the selection criteria, leading to full text review of 125 articles. Seven studies were identified in the peer review literature. Adapting health literacy guidelines and tools was the most common approach to addressing organisational health literacy. While the use of health literacy tools proved important for raising awareness of health literacy issues within organisations, these tools were insufficient for generating the organisational changes necessary to improve organisational health literacy.

Water abstraction from rivers and aquifers has considerable potential to alter flow regimes, thereby influencing the physical, chemical, and ecological well-being of freshwater ecosystems. The economic and social benefits of abstraction need to be balanced against its potentially deleterious consequences for hydrologically-driven ecological functions, ecosystem services, cultural values, and recreation. In New Zealand, recent legislation states that limits for the use of water resources should be set for all waterbodies to manage the potential cumulative impacts of abstraction and reduce allocation of the hydrological resource in over-allocated catchments. These limits must comprise at least a predefined minimum flow (the flow at which all abstraction must cease) and a total allocation (the maximum rate of abstraction summed across upstream abstractions). Over-allocation occurs when the sum of all upstream abstractions exceeds the total allocation. A national database describing consents to abstract water was collated. A replicable, transferable, and objective method was applied to calculate total allocation at the national, catchment, and reach scales across the entire country. Total allocation for each catchment was expressed by mapping Weighted Allocation Impact; an index that integrates magnitude and spread of water resource allocation across entire catchments. Results show that existing consents have caused over-allocation in several catchments, prompting questions about how to reduce abstraction in these locations.

: media-1vid110.1542/5751513300001PEDS-VA_2017-2309 This cross-sectional study included San Francisco residents <18 years of age with an emergency department and/or urgent care visit to any of 3 medical systems ( Neighborhood child opportunity and income had distinct spatial distributions, and we identified different clusters of high- and low-risk neighborhoods. Children living in the lowest opportunity neighborhoods had significantly greater odds of ≥4 acute care visits per year (odds ratio 1.33; 95% confidence interval 1.03-1.73) compared with those in the highest opportunity neighborhoods. Neighborhood child opportunity was negatively associated with visits for respiratory conditions, asthma, assault, and ambulatory care-sensitive conditions but positively associated with injury-related visits. The Child Opportunity Index could be an effective tool for identifying neighborhood factors beyond income related to child health.

The Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3 emphasises on reducing neonatal deaths caused by low birth weight (LBW) complications by the implementation and utilisation of Kangaroo Mother Care (KMC) in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Despite the empirical evidence of KMC optimising low-birth-weight infants' (LBWIs') survival, its advantages and the LMICs implementing the service, studies have shown that LBW infant deaths occurring in LMICs are largely contributing to global child mortality. The aim of this scoping review is to map out the literature on barriers, challenges and facilitators of KMC utilisation by parents with LBWIs. This scoping review will use Endnote X7 reference management software to manage articles. The review search strategy will use SCIELO and LILACS databases. Other databases will be used via EBSCOHost search engine and these are Academic search complete, CINAHL with full text, Education source, Health source: Nursing/Academic Edition, Medline with full text and Medline. We will also use Google Scholar, JSTOR, Open grey search engines and reference lists. A two-phase search mapping out process will be done. In phase 1, one reviewer will perform the title screening and removal of duplicates. Two reviewers will do a parallel abstract screening according to eligibility criteria. Phase 2 will involve the reading of full articles and exclusion of articles, in accordance with the eligibility criteria. Data extraction from the articles will be done by two reviewers independently and parallel to the data extraction form. The data quality assessment of the eligible studies will be done using the Mixed Method Appraisal Tool (MMAT). The extraction of the synthesised results and thematic content analysis of the studies will be done by NVIVO version 10. We expect to find studies on barriers, challenges and facilitating factors of KMC utilisation by parents with LBWIs in LMICs. The review outcomes will guide future research and practice and inform policy. The findings will be disseminated in print, electronic and conference presentations related to maternal child and neonatal health.

The association between vegetable intake and blood pressure (BP) in adolescents is still inconsistent, and the description of the recommended daily vegetable consumption is abstract and nonfigurative. Here we aimed to investigate the association between vegetable consumption and BP and further look for a simple way to describe a satisfactory level of daily vegetable consumption for adolescents. We recruited 18,757 adolescents, aged 13-17 years, from seven provinces in China in 2013. A standard physical examination, including height, weight and BP was conducted. Information regarding vegetable intake was collected by questionnaire, and one serving of vegetables was defined as the size of an adult's fist. Multivariable linear and logistic regression models were used for analysis after adjusting for covariates. Approximately 12.2%, 38.0%, 28.7%, and 21.1% of the adolescents reported daily vegetable consumption of <1, 1~2, 2~3, and ≥3 servings, respectively. Adolescents whose daily vegetable consumption was ≥3 servings showed a lower risk of high blood pressure (HBP) (OR = 0.74, 95%CI: 0.58~0.94, 

Vaccine acceptance depends on public trust and confidence in the safety and efficacy of vaccines and immunization, the health system, healthcare professionals and the wider vaccine research community. This systematic review analyses the current breadth and depth of vaccine research literature that explicitly refers to the concept of trust within their stated aims or research questions. After duplicates were removed, 19,643 articles were screened by title and abstract. Of these 2,779 were screened by full text, 35 of which were included in the final analysis. These studies examined a range of trust relationships as they pertain to vaccination, including trust in healthcare professionals, the health system, the government, and friends and family members. Three studies examined generalized trust. Findings indicated that trust is often referred to implicitly (19/35), rather than explicitly examined in the context of a formal definition or discussion of the existing literature on trust in a health context. Within the quantitative research analysed, trust was commonly measured with a single-item measure (9/25). Only two studies used validated multi-item measures of trust. Three studies examined changes in trust, either following an intervention or over the course of a pandemic. The findings of this review indicate a disconnect between the current vaccine hesitancy research and the wider health-related trust literature, a dearth in research on trust in low and middle-income settings, a need for studies on how trust levels change over time and investigations on how resilience to trust-eroding information can be built into a trustworthy health system.

This meta-analysis summarizes the results of research on the relationships of majority group members' endorsement of assimilation, colorblindness, multiculturalism, and the relative relationships of colorblindness and multiculturalism to ethnic prejudice. Random effects analyses found that assimilation was positively related to explicit prejudice (

Although a range of factors shapes health and well-being, institutionalized racism (societal allocation of privilege based on race) plays an important role in generating inequities by race. The goal of this analysis was to review the contemporary peer-reviewed public health literature from 2002-2015 to determine whether the concept of institutionalized racism was named (ie, explicitly mentioned) and whether it was a core concept in the article. We used a systematic literature review methodology to find articles from the top 50 highest-impact journals in each of 6 categories (249 journals in total) that most closely represented the public health field, were published during 2002-2015, were US focused, were indexed in PubMed/MEDLINE and/or Ovid/MEDLINE, and mentioned terms relating to institutionalized racism in their titles or abstracts. We analyzed the content of these articles for the use of related terms and concepts. We found only 25 articles that named institutionalized racism in the title or abstract among all articles published in the public health literature during 2002-2015 in the 50 highest-impact journals and 6 categories representing the public health field in the United States. Institutionalized racism was a core concept in 16 of the 25 articles. Although institutionalized racism is recognized as a fundamental cause of health inequities, it was not often explicitly named in the titles or abstracts of articles published in the public health literature during 2002-2015. Our results highlight the need to explicitly name institutionalized racism in articles in the public health literature and to make it a central concept in inequities research. More public health research on institutionalized racism could help efforts to overcome its substantial, longstanding effects on health and well-being.

In 2016, firearms killed 38,658 people in the United States. Federal law requires licensed gun dealers, but not private parties, to conduct background checks on prospective firearm purchasers with the goal of preventing prohibited persons from obtaining firearms. Our objective was to estimate the effect of the repeal of comprehensive background check laws-requiring a background check for all handgun sales, not just sales by licensed dealers-on firearm homicide and suicide rates in Indiana and Tennessee. We compared age-adjusted firearm homicide and suicide rates, measured annually from 1981 to 2008 and 1994 to 2008 in Indiana and Tennessee, respectively, to rates in control groups constructed using the synthetic control method. The average rates of firearm homicide and suicide in Indiana and Tennessee following repeal were within the range of what could be expected, given natural variation (differences = 0.7 firearm homicides and 0.5 firearm suicides per 100,000 residents in Indiana and 0.4 firearm homicides and 0.3 firearm suicides per 100,000 residents in Tennessee). Sensitivity analyses resulted in similar findings. We found no evidence of an association between the repeal of comprehensive background check policies and firearm homicide and suicide rates in Indiana and Tennessee. In order to understand whether comprehensive background check policies reduce firearm deaths in the United States generally, more evidence on the impact of such policies from other states is needed. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B353.

This is the abstract that was submitted online with the paper: Despite the fact that many survivors of human trafficking have experienced complex trauma, there are no established interventions designed to specifically address these impacts. Leaders in the field of complex trauma have advocated for the need for somatic approaches to intervention. This paper presents STARS Experiential Group treatment, the first structured bodybased group intervention that has been designed to address complex trauma in survivors of human trafficking. Three pilot groups were run in residential settings with adolescent and adult survivors of sex trafficking. Two adaptations were utilized, with one focusing on application of expressive arts modalities and the other incorporating theater games. Qualitative results, using thematic analysis, identified several themes related to challenges and potential benefits of these groups. Potential benefits of the STARS groups were found in the areas of Interpersonal Relationships, Regulation, and Self/ Identity, with fourteen sub-themes further describing positive impacts. Challenges within these areas are explored, to inform the development of group interventions for trafficking survivors. The results of this paper suggest that experiential, somatically-oriented group treatment shows promise as an important element of holistic intervention with trafficking survivors.

Background Stroke is a leading cause of disability in the United States, resulting in physical, cognitive, and emotional impairments. One in ten strokes occur in adults younger than 50 years of age and the incidence has increased approximately 44% from 2000 to 2010. Young adult survivors have specific needs related to their developmental stage including childcare responsibilities. Despite the high value placed on parenting by society, parenting is currently not assessed at any stage of stroke rehabilitation. Objective To determine the state of the science on parenting after stroke Methods A literature search of multiple electronic databases was conducted from 1964 to February 2018. Select key words were adapted for use in each database. Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta Analyses guidelines were followed. Results One thousand two hundred and forty-one articles were identified from electronic databases. After deduplication, abstract/title review, and full-text review, ten studies were included. Nine of the studies were qualitative and one was a retrospective cohort study. Survivors in all but one of the qualitative studies reported limitations in parenting tasks after stroke. Changes in social relationships and participation as a parent in other life domains as a result of stroke were also described by survivors. Conclusion Findings from this systematic review of the perspectives of stroke survivors actively parenting suggest that residual stroke impairments lead to both activity limitations and participation restrictions. However, the literature available on parenting after stroke is limited and there is a significant opportunity to advance this area of stroke research.

Childhood obesity is increasing in many parts of the world. For the child, obesity often involves major social challenges. Within the framework of social studies of children and childhood and employing the concept of biopedagogies, I explore how children with severe obesity who participate in a long-term rehabilitation programme changed the perception of their bodies from 'being fat' to 'suffering from obesity' by embracing the biopedagogies involved. Due to this transformation, 'obesity' was made into an entity - 'a thing' that the children could work on -, which was used for coping and change. The article is based on an ethnographic field study of a Norwegian randomized medical intervention trial for children with obesity. A virtual abstract of this paper can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA.

"Alone with the taboo" - The social support experienced by women with vulvar neoplasia: a qualitative study Abstract. Cancer of the vulva is a gynaecological disease often with relevant impact for these women's daily life. On top of the medical complications, psychological problems might arise as well, due to the impaired quality of life and the withdrawal from social life. We do not know whether and what type of support is given to these patients. The qualitative study aimed at describing how the affected women experience the support they receive from their social environment from the time of the diagnosis to six months postoperatively. A qualitative design was used. In a secondary analysis, 20 transcribed interviews from the WOMN-PRO study were analysed by qualitative content analysis according to Mayring. The findings from the study resulted in four main categories: having a serious disease shows how the patients experience the diagnosis as a shock and are confronted with questions of guilt and taboos. The category feel alone was strongly represented with features of not-speaking out, not looking at it and not-acting. Do it on your own features descriptions of the strategies the women use to get out of their loneliness. In experience help, it is shown that women who try to get in touch with their social environment usually receive support. Patients have a high demand for information concerning the disease and its possible impacts on their daily life as well as emotional and practical support from their families / partners and especially from health professionals. We recommend designating someone who acts throughout the whole treatment process as a mediator and a person of trust.

providing appropriate care for pregnant women with high or severe fear of childbirth (FOC) is a challenge in midwifery care today. FOC is associated with predisposing anamnestic factors, various sociodemographic and psychosocial characteristics, and may result in serious healthrelated consequences. It is therefore important to establish which interventions may increase a woman's faith in her own ability to cope with labour and birth. to systematically identify and review studies examining interventions for relief of severe fear of childbirth in pregnancy and their underlying conceptual foundation. a systematic literature search was performed following Cochrane Collaboration and PRISMA Statement recommendations. Inclusion criteria were: studies including pregnant women diagnosed with high or severe FOC or who requested a caesarean section due to severe FOC, studies (regardless of design) observing the effect of an intervention addressing FOC, and studies published in English. Publications addressing anxiety or stress were excluded. 377 references were screened by title and abstract. The risk of bias was assessed. 19 articles referring to 15 research projects were included in the analysis. The studies show heterogeneity regarding assessment methods, type, conceptualisation and application of interventions. There is evidence that both cognitive therapy sessions and a theory-based group psychoeducation with relaxation are effective interventions. despite methodological limitations, single or group psychoeducation sessions for nulliparous women or therapeutic conversation during pregnancy (in group or individual sessions) have the potential to strengthen women's self-efficacy and decrease the number of caesarean sections due to FOC. The theoretical validation of an intervention deepens the understanding of psychological processes in women coping with severe FOC. theory-based concepts of care for both antenatal and intrapartum support of pregnant women with high or severe FOC should be developed, piloted, tested, evaluated and implemented within the given healthcare system. Midwives need to be competent to address pregnant women's fears regarding labour and birth in antenatal care. The use of a valid assessment tool to identify the level of FOC in women, even if they do not raise the issue, is recommended in routine antenatal care so that appropriate expert support can be offered. A one-on-one conversation may be feasible for those women unwilling to fill in a questionnaire. Cooperative local networks between midwives, psychologists and obstetricians qualified in psychotherapy should be established to ensure timely and effective care for women with high or severe FOC.

Specific Event Identifiers a. Event type: Outdoor music festival. b. Event onset date: December 3, 2016. c. Location of event: Regatta Point, Commonwealth Park. d. Geographical coordinates: Canberra, Australian Capital Territory (ACT), Australia (-35.289002, 149.131957, 600m). e. Dates and times of observation in latitude, longitude, and elevation: December 3, 2016, 11:00-23:00. f. Response type: Event medical support. Abstract Introduction Young adult patrons are vulnerable to risk-taking behavior, including drug taking, at outdoor music festivals. Therefore, the aim of this field report is to discuss the on-site medical response during a music festival, and subsequently highlight observed strategies aimed at minimizing substance abuse harm. The observed outdoor music festival was held in Canberra (Australian Capital Territory [ACT], Australia) during the early summer of 2016, with an attendance of 23,008 patrons. First aid and on-site medical treatment data were gained from the relevant treatment area and service. The integrated first aid service provided support to 292 patients. Final analysis consisted of 286 patients' records, with 119 (41.6%) males and 167 (58.4%) females. Results from this report indicated that drug intoxication was an observed event issue, with 15 (5.1%) treated on site and 13 emergency department (ED) presentations, primarily related to trauma or medical conditions requiring further diagnostics. This report details an important public health need, which could be met by providing a coordinated approach, including a robust on-site medical service, accepting intrinsic risk-taking behavior. This may include on-site drug-checking, providing reliable information on drug content with associated education. Luther M , Gardiner F , Lenson S , Caldicott D , Harris R , Sabet R , Malloy M , Perkins J . An effective risk minimization strategy applied to an outdoor music festival: a multi-agency approach. Prehosp Disaster Med. 2018;33(2):220-224.

The opioid epidemic, driven in part by increased prescribing, is a public health emergency. This study examines dispensed prescription patterns and approvals of new opioid analgesic products to investigate whether the introduction of these new drugs increases prescribing. Prescribing patterns based on dispensed prescription claims from the U.S. retail setting were assessed with new brand and generic opioid analgesic products approved in the United States from 1997 through 2015. From 1997 through 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (Silver Spring, Maryland) approved 263 opioid analgesic products, including 33 brand products. Dispensed prescriptions initially increased 80% from 145 million prescriptions in 1997 to a peak of 260 million prescriptions in 2012 before decreasing by 12% to 228 million prescriptions in 2015. Morphine milligram equivalents dispensed per prescription increased from 486 in 1997 to a peak of 950 in 2010, before decreasing to 905 in 2015. In 2015, generic products accounted for 96% (218/228 million prescriptions) of all opioid analgesic prescriptions dispensed. The remaining prescriptions were dispensed for brand products, of which nearly half were dispensed for one brand product (OxyContin, Purdue, USA). There has been a dramatic increase in prescriptions dispensed for opioid analgesics since 1997 and an increasing number of opioid analgesic approvals; however, the number of prescriptions dispensed has declined since 2012 despite an increasing number of approvals. Examination of dispensed prescriptions shows a shifting and complex market where multiple factors likely influence prescribing; the approval of new products alone may not be sufficient to be a primary driver of increased prescribing. An online visual overview is available for this article at http://links.lww.com/ALN/B705.

Clothing is an important aspect of nearly all human societies from performing social and cultural functions to indicating social status, a form of protection and a way for self-expression. It can help or hinder the ability to fulfil everyday activities and social roles and with the rising industry of wearable technologies, smart textiles are adding health-monitoring functions to clothing. The influence that clothing can have on the life of someone with a physical disability is significant, and further research is needed to understand it better. To achieve this, a scoping review will be performed with the aim of understanding the role of clothing in participation (ie, at home, in the community, etc) of individuals with a physical disability. This article presents the protocol and procedure to be adopted. An in-depth iterative analysis of the scientific literature from six databases (MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, Scopus, PsycINFO and ERIC) as well as a hand search of grey literature and reference lists will be performed. After an abstract and full-text review of references by three reviewers independently, data from the selected articles will be tabulated and synthesised with a qualitative and quantitative approach using the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health as a unifying conceptual framework. A multidisciplinary consultation group of experts from various stakeholder groups will be involved in multiple steps to ensure validation and relevance of the data. As this is a review involving analysis of data available in the public domain and does not involve human participants, ethical approval was not required. Results will be presented in a co-constructed format with the expert consultation group to ensure validity and maximise its practicality moving forward. Our dissemination plan includes peer-reviewed publications, presentations and stakeholder meetings.

The purpose of this article is to map the data currently available on the subject of eating practices and food environments in small (i.e. one- and two-person) households. Specifically, the enquiry is focused on commensality; the act of eating together. Research dates from the late 1980s, however, there are few recent publications on this subject. Searching Ovid MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Web of Science, Scopus, ProQuest and Google Scholar, 2949 papers were found, but only 457 discussed any element of the research questions. These were further distilled to a count of 117, by abstract reading to 53 at which point, quality, location and study focus eliminated a further 34 articles leaving 19 articles. After full reading, it was clear that only seven of these focused on the research question in detail and these are marked as four-star articles by bold text. The 19 articles are analysed for quality and their aspects of relevance to the central research question is discussed.

Greater understanding of barriers to screening of colorectal cancer among lower socioeconomic, particularly Hispanic, patients is needed to improve disparities in care. This study aimed to explore patients' perceptions and experiences of care seeking for colorectal cancer to identify barriers to early diagnosis and treatment. This explorative qualitative study was conducted as a focused ethnography of patients diagnosed with advanced-stage colorectal cancer. This study was conducted at an urban safety-net hospital. Thirty lower-income, primarily minority, patients diagnosed with stage III and IV colorectal cancer without prior colorectal cancer screening were selected. The primary outcomes measured were participants' perceptions and experiences of colorectal cancer and barriers they faced in seeking diagnosis and treatment RESULTS:: Data analysis yielded 4 themes consistently influencing participants' decisions to seek diagnosis and treatment: 1) limited resources for accessing care (structural barriers, including economic, health care and health educational resources); 2) (mis)understanding of symptoms by patients; misdiagnosis of symptoms, by physicians; 3) beliefs about illness and health, such as relying on faith, or self-care when symptoms developed; and 4) reactions to illness, including maintenance of masculinity, confusing interactions with physicians, embarrassment, and fear. These 4 themes describe factors on the structural, health care system, provider and patient level, that interact to make engaging in prevention foreign among this population, thus limiting early detection and treatment of colorectal cancer. This study was limited by selection bias and the lack of generalizability. Improving screening rates among lower-income populations requires addressing barriers across the multiple levels, structural, personal, health care system, that patients encounter in seeking care for colorectal cancer. Acknowledging the complex, multilevel influences impacting patient health care choices and behaviors allows for the development of culturally tailored interventions, and educational, financial, and community resources to decrease disparities in cancer screening and care and improve outcomes for these at-risk patients. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A473.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess epidemiologic evidence that increased altitude of residence is linked to increased risk of depression and suicide• Evaluate strategies to address hypoxia-related depression and suicidal ideation ABSTRACT: Suicide and major depressive disorder (MDD) are complex conditions that almost certainly arise from the influences of many interrelated factors. There are significant regional variations in the rates of MDD and suicide in the United States, suggesting that sociodemographic and environmental conditions contribute. Here, we review epidemiological evidence that increases in the altitude of residence are linked to the increased risk of depression and suicide. We consider the possibility that chronic hypobaric hypoxia (low blood oxygen related to low atmospheric pressure) contributes to suicide and depression, which is suggested by animal models, short-term studies in humans, and the effects of hypoxic medical conditions on suicide and depression. We argue that hypobaric hypoxia could promote suicide and depression by altering serotonin metabolism and brain bioenergetics; both of these pathways are implicated in depression, and both are affected by hypoxia. Finally, we briefly examine treatment strategies to address hypoxia-related depression and suicidal ideation that are suggested by these findings, including creatine monohydrate and the serotonin precursors tryptophan and 5-hydroxytryptophan.

This study explored the feasibility of using Construal Level Theory to analyse proxy decision maker thinking about a hypothetical ethical dilemma, relating to a person who has dementia. Proxy decision makers make decisions on behalf of individuals who are living with dementia when dementia affects that individual's decision making ability. Ethical dilemmas arise because there is a need to balance the individual's past and contemporary values and views. Understanding of how proxy decision makers respond is incomplete. Construal Level Theory contends that individuals imagine reactions and make predications about the future by crossing psychological distance. This involves abstract thinking, giving meaning to decisions. There is no empirical evidence of Construal Level Theory being used to analyse proxy decision maker thinking. Exploring the feasibility of using Construal Level Theory to understand dementia carer thinking regarding proxy decisions may provide insights which inform the support given. Descriptive qualitative research with semi-structured interviews. Seven participants were interviewed using a hypothetical dementia care scenario in February 2016. Interview transcripts were analysed for themes. Construal Level Theory was applied to analyse participant responses within themes using the Linguistic Category Model. Participants travelled across psychological distance, using abstract thinking to clarify goals and provide a basis for decisions. When thinking concretely participants established boundaries regarding the ethical dilemma. Construal Level Theory gives insight into proxy decision maker thinking and the levels of abstraction used. Understanding what dementia carers think about when making proxy decisions may help nurses to understand their perspectives and to provide appropriate support.

The present study aimed to gain more insight into, and summarise, blood donation determinants among migrants or minorities of Sub-Saharan heritage by systematically reviewing the current literature. Sub-Saharan Africans are under-represented in the blood donor population in Western high-income countries. This causes a lack of specific blood types for transfusions and prevention of alloimmunisation among Sub-Saharan African patients. Medline, EMBASE, PsycINFO and BIOSIS were searched for relevant empirical studies that focused on barriers and facilitators of blood donation among Sub-Saharan Africans in Western countries until 22 June 2017. Of the 679 articles screened by title and abstract, 152 were subsequently screened by full text. Paired reviewers independently assessed the studies based on predefined eligibility and quality criteria. Of the 31 included studies, 24 used quantitative and 7 used qualitative research methods. Target cohorts varied from Black African Americans and refugees from Sub-Sahara Africa to specific Sub-Saharan migrant groups such as Comorians or Ethiopians. Main recurring barriers for Sub-Saharan Africans were haemoglobin deferral, fear of needles and pain, social exclusion, lack of awareness, negative attitudes and accessibility problems. Important recurring facilitators for Sub-Saharan Africans were altruism, free health checks and specific recruitment and awareness-raising campaigns. The findings of this review can be used as a starting point to develop recruitment and retention strategies for Sub-Saharan African persons. Further research is needed to gain more insight in the role of these determinants in specific contexts as socioeconomic features, personal histories and host country regulations may differ per country.

Vaccine hesitancy in industrialised countries is an area of concern. Health professionals play a significant role in parental vaccination decisions, however, to date the role of midwives has not been widely explored. This review sought to describe the attitudes and communication practices of midwives in developed countries towards childhood vaccines. Medline, Cinahl, PsychInfo, Embase and the grey literature were searched. Inclusion criteria were qualitative and quantitative studies reporting midwives' beliefs, attitudes and communication practices toward childhood vaccination. The search returned 366 articles, of which 359 were excluded by abstract. Two additional articles were identified from the grey literature and references, resulting in nine studies from five countries included in the review. Across the studies, the majority of midwives supported vaccination, although a spectrum of beliefs and concerns emerged. A minority expressed reservations about the scientific justification for vaccination, which focussed on what is not yet known rather than mistrust of current evidence. Most midwives felt that vaccines were safe; a minority were unsure, or believed they were unsafe. The majority of midwives agreed that childhood vaccines are necessary. Among those who expressed doubt, a commonly held opinion was that vaccine preventable diseases such as measles are relatively benign and didn't warrant vaccination against them. Finally, the midwifery model of care was shown to focus on providing individualised care, with parental choice being placed at a premium. The midwifery model care appears to differ in approach from others, possibly due to a difference in the underpinning philosophies. Research is needed to understand how midwives see vaccination, and why there appears to be a spectrum of views on the subject. This information will inform the development of resources tailored to the midwifery model of care, supporting midwives in advocating for childhood vaccination.

Academic conferences are among the most prolific scientific activities, yet the current abstract submission and review process has serious limitations. We propose a revised process that would address these limitations, achieve some of the aims of Open Science, and stimulate discussion throughout the entire lifecycle of the scientific work.

A mapping review to quantify representation of vulnerable populations, who suffer from disparity and often inequitable healthcare, in quality improvement (QI) research. Studies published in 2004-2014 inclusive from Medline, Embase and Cochrane databases for English language research with the terms 'quality improvement' or 'quality control' or 'QI' and 'plan-do-study-act' or 'PDSA' in the years 2004-2014 inclusively. Published clinical research that was a QI-themed, as identified by its declared search terms, MESH terms, abstract or title. Three reviewers identified the eligible studies independently. Excluded were publications that were not trials, evaluations or analyses. Of 2039 results, 1660 were eligible for inclusion. There were 586 (33.5%) publications that targeted a specific vulnerable population: children (184, 10.54%), mental health patients (125, 7.16%), the elderly (100, 5.73%), women (57, 3.27%), the poor (30, 1.72%), rural residents (29, 1.66%), visible minorities (27, 1.55%), the terminally ill (17, 0.97%), adolescents (16, 0.92%) and prisoners (1 study). Seventy-four articles targeted two or more vulnerable populations, and 11 targeted three population categories. On average, there were 158 QI research studies published per year, increasing from 69 in 2004 to 396 in 2014 (R2 = 0.7, P < 0.001). The relative representation of vulnerable populations had a mean of 33.58% and was stable over the time period (standard deviation (SD) = 5.9%, R2 = 0.001). Seven countries contributed to over 85% of the publications targeting vulnerable populations, with the USA contributing 62% of the studies. Over 11 years, there has been a marked increase in QI publications. Roughly one-third of all published QI research is on vulnerable populations, a stable proportion over time. Nevertheless, some vulnerable populations are under-represented. Increased education, resources and attention are encouraged to improve the health of vulnerable populations through focused QI initiatives.

Cross-cultural communication of "nuttiness" can be problematic because the underlying conceptual elements and words used to describe its features may be largely culture-dependent. The present study was conducted to understand similarities and dissimilarities in the concept of nuttiness and its actual perception in our model food system, soymilk, among similar (Korean and Chinese) and dissimilar (Western) food cultures. In total, 110 Koreans, 103 Chinese, and 93 English-speaking, Western consumers were recruited. Subjects were asked to provide a definition of nuttiness and generate examples of nutty and non-nutty foods. They also rated the intensity of the nuttiness of 8 soymilk samples. Sensory profiles of 8 soymilk samples were obtained using 9 trained panelists. Data from the definition task were processed through textual analysis. To identify sensory drivers, consumer ratings of perceived nuttiness intensity in soymilk were projected onto a sensory space constructed from the descriptive profiles of nuttiness. We found significant association between culture and usage of specific words (χ

Total hip replacement (THA) surgery is a successful procedure, yet blacks in the United States undergo THA less often and reflect poorer outcomes than whites. The purpose of this study is to systematically review the literature on health-related quality of life after THA, comparing blacks and whites. A librarian-assisted search was performed in Medline through PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library on February 27, 2017. Original cohort studies examining pain, function, and satisfaction in blacks and whites 1 year after elective THA were included. Using the Patient/Population-Intervention-Comparison/Comparator-Outcome (PICO) process format, our population of interest was US black adults, our intervention was elective THA, our comparator was white adults, and our outcomes of interest were pain, function, and satisfaction after elective THA. The protocol was registered under the PROSPERO international register, and the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were followed. Of the articles, 4739 were screened by title, 180 by abstract, 25 by full text, and 4 remained for analysis. The studies represented 1588 THA patients, of whom 240 (15%) were black. All studies noted more pain and worse function for blacks; although differences were statistically significant, they were not clinically significant. One study sought and identified less satisfaction for blacks after THA, and 1 study showed worse fear and anxiety scores in blacks. When measured, there are small differences in THA outcomes between blacks and whites, but most studies do not analyze/collect race. Future studies should address the effect of race and socioeconomic factors on healthcare disparities.

To evaluate whether scientific abstracts selected for podium presentation at the Orthopaedic Trauma Association (OTA) Annual Meeting differ based on the program committee size and/or the proportion of abstracts each committee member evaluates. Abstract scores from the Orthopaedic Trauma Association program committee from 2010 through 2016 were obtained. All members (range, 8-9) reviewed each clinical abstract (range, 506-778) each year in a blinded fashion. The 90 top-scoring abstracts were considered "accepted" for this study. To determine the effect of reducing the committee size, all possible combinations of reviewers for each possible committee size were modeled. To determine the effect of reducing the number of abstracts each member reviewed, we used Monte Carlo simulation with 100 cycles to generate possible combinations of 1-9 reviewers for each abstract. Mean percent agreement with the actual selection was the primary outcome. The mean percent agreement progressively declined from 90.2% with 1 less committee member to 56.7% with only a single reviewer. For each reduction in the number of committee members, 4.4% agreement was lost. If all committee members were retained but the number of reviewers per abstract was reduced from 8 to 1, the mean percent agreement declined from 88.8% to 43.0%. Each reduction in reviewers per abstract reduced the mean percent agreement 6.3%. The findings inform program committees striving to balance the trade-off between an acceptable reduction in agreement, given a reduction in the program committee size or the proportion of abstracts each committee member evaluates.

We have performed a narrative synthesis. A literature search was conducted between January 2000 and June 2014 in 7 databases. The initial search identified 2717 articles; 319 underwent abstract screening, 67 underwent full-text screening, and 25 final articles were included. This review looked at early stage breast cancer in women only, excluding ductal carcinoma in situ and advanced breast cancer. A conceptual framework was created to organize the central constructs underlying women's choices: clinicopathologic factors, physician factors, and individual factors with subgroups of sociodemographic, geographic, and personal beliefs and preferences. This framework guided our review's synthesis and analysis. We found that larger tumor size and increasing stage was associated with increased rates of mastectomy. The results for age varied, but suggested that old and young extremes of diagnostic age were associated with an increased likelihood of mastectomy. Higher socioeconomic status was associated with higher breast conservation therapy (BCT) rates. Resident rural location and increasing distance from radiation treatment facilities were associated with lower rates of BCT. Individual belief factors influencing women's choice of mastectomy (mastectomy being reassuring, avoiding radiation, an expedient treatment) differed from factors influencing choice of BCT (body image and femininity, physician recommendation, survival equivalence, less surgery). Surgeon factors, including female gender, higher case numbers, and individual surgeon practice, were associated with increased BCT rates. The decision-making process for women with early stage breast cancer is complicated and affected by multiple factors. Organizing these factors into central constructs of clinicopathologic, individual, and physician factors may aid health-care professionals to better understand this process.

For more than 30 years policy action across sectors has been celebrated as a necessary and viable way to affect the social factors impacting on health. In particular intersectoral action on the social determinants of health is considered necessary to address social inequalities in health. However, despite growing support for intersectoral policymaking, implementation remains a challenge. Critics argue that public health has remained naïve about the policy process and a better understanding is needed. Based on ethnographic data, this paper conducts an in-depth analysis of a local process of intersectoral policymaking in order to gain a better understanding of the challenges posed by implementation. To help conceptualize the process, we apply the theoretical perspective of organizational neo-institutionalism, in particular the concepts of rationalized myth and decoupling. On the basis of an explorative study among ten Danish municipalities, we conducted an ethnographic study of the development of a municipal-wide implementation strategy for the intersectoral health policy of a medium-sized municipality. The main data sources consist of ethnographic field notes from participant observation and interview transcripts. By providing detailed contextual description, we show how an apparent failure to move from policy to action is played out by the ongoing production of abstract rhetoric and vague plans. We find that idealization of universal intersectoralism, inconsistent demands, and doubts about economic outcomes challenge the notion of implementation as moving from rhetoric to action. We argue that the 'myth' of intersectoralism may be instrumental in avoiding the specification of action to implement the policy, and that the policy instead serves as a way to display and support good intentions and hereby continue the process. On this basis we expand the discussion on implementation challenges regarding intersectoral policymaking for health.

The purpose of this review was to examine and synthesize recent literature regarding problems experienced by informal caregivers when providing care for individuals with heart failure in the home. Integrative literature review. A review of current empirical literature was conducted utilizing PubMed, CINAHL, Embase, Sociological Abstracts, Social Sciences Full Text, PsycARTICLES, PsycINFO, Health Source: Nursing/Academic Edition, and Cochrane computerized databases. 19 qualitative, 16 quantitative, and 2 mixed methods studies met the inclusion criteria for review. Computerized databases were searched for a combination of subject terms (i.e., MeSH) and keywords related to informal caregivers, problems, and heart failure. The title and abstract of identified articles and reference lists were reviewed. Studies were included if they were published in English between January 2000 and December 2016 and examined problems experienced by informal caregivers in providing care for individuals with heart failure in the home. Studies were excluded if not written in English or if elements of caregiving in heart failure were not present in the title, abstract, or text. Unpublished and duplicate empirical literature as well as articles related to specific end-stage heart failure populations also were excluded. Methodology described by Cooper and others for integrative reviews of quantitative and qualitative research was used. Quality appraisal of the included studies was evaluated using the Joanna Briggs Institute critical appraisal tools for cross-sectional quantitative and qualitative studies. Informal caregivers experienced four key problems when providing care for individuals with heart failure in the home, including performing multifaceted activities and roles that evolve around daily heart failure demands; maintaining caregiver physical, emotional, social, spiritual, and financial well-being; having insufficient caregiver support; and performing caregiving with uncertainty and inadequate knowledge. Informal caregivers of individuals with heart failure experience complex problems in the home when providing care which impact all aspects of their lives. Incorporating advice from informal caregivers of individuals with heart failure will assist in the development of interventions to reduce negative caregiver outcomes. Given the complex roles in caring for individuals with heart failure, multicomponent interventions are potentially promising in assisting informal caregivers in performing these roles.

Although people with dementia receive substantial care from informal sources, there is limited research available that investigates how these carers experience end-of-life care. This review aimed to identify what is currently known about carers' experiences of providing end-of-life care to a family member or friend with dementia and draw implications for palliative care policy and service provision. A scoping literature review was conducted, first using a targeted key word search, followed by assessments of eligibility based on title and then abstract content. Records were sourced through PsycINFO, PubMed and CINAHL databases. Peer-reviewed papers published between 2000 and 2016, reporting on data collected directly from carers, were included for review. Carers' experience centred on relationships (with care recipients, family and friends and health care professionals) and the specific context of caring for someone with dementia. These broad categories of carers' experiences had clear influences on them personally, particularly in relation to their sense of self and their wellbeing. Palliative care services would benefit from ensuring holistic approaches to supporting people with dementia, their carers and wider family networks. Tailoring services to the specific context of dementia would enable effective, personalised support throughout extended periods leading up to care recipient death as well as through the challenges faced beyond bereavement.

Abstracts submitted to meetings are subject to less rigorous peer review than full-text manuscripts. This study aimed to explore the publication outcome of abstracts presented at the American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) annual meeting. Abstracts presented at the 2008 AAO meeting were analyzed. Each presented abstract was sought via PubMed to identify if it had been published as a full-text manuscript. The publication outcome, journal impact factor (IF), and time to publication were recorded. A total of 690 abstracts were reviewed, of which 39.1% were subsequently published. They were published in journals with a median IF of 2.9 (range 0-7.2) and a median publication time of 426 days (range 0-2,133 days). A quarter were published in the journal  Almost 40% of abstracts were published. Factors that correlated with publication in journals with higher IF were a focus on rare diseases, affiliation with a US institute, and funding.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

The present study investigates the applicability of the chemical analysis of wastewater to assess the use of doping substances by the general population and amateur athletes. To this end, an analytical methodology that can identify and quantify a list of 15 substances from the groups of anabolic steroids, weight loss products, and masking agents in wastewater has been developed. The method uses solid phase extraction to increase the detection sensitivity of the target analytes, expected to be present at very low concentrations (ng L

This article presents the results of a systematic review of the consequences of elder abuse and neglect (EAN). A systematic search was conducted in seven electronic databases and three sources of gray literature up to January 8, 2016, supplemented by scanning of citation lists in relevant articles and contact with field experts. All observational studies investigating elder abuse as a risk factor for adverse health outcomes, mortality, and health-care utilization were included. Of 517 articles initially captured, 19 articles met our inclusion criteria and were analyzed. Two reviewers independently performed abstract screening, full-texts appraisal, and quality assessment using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. Across 19 studies, methodological heterogeneity was a prominent feature; seven definitions of EAN and nine measurement tools for abuse were employed. Summary of results reveals a wide range of EAN outcomes, from premature mortality to increased health-care consumption and various forms of physical and psychological symptoms. Higher risks of mortality emerged as the most credible outcome, while the majority of morbidity outcomes originated from cross-sectional studies. Our findings suggest that there is an underrepresentation of older adults from non-Western populations and developing countries, and there is a need for more population-based prospective studies in middle- and low-income regions. Evidence gathered from this review is crucial in upgrading current practices, formulating policies, and shaping the future direction of research.

To identify, appraise, and synthesize research evidence on the prevalence of domestic violence (DV) among pregnant women in Nigeria. We conducted a systematic review of all published studies between April 2004 and June 2016. Comprehensive searches were conducted on electronic databases such as PubMed, CINAHL, Global Health, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Directory of Open Access Journals, Google Scholar, and electronic libraries of the authors' institution. Identified articles were screened in two stages against the inclusion criteria with titles and abstract screened first followed by full-text screening. Selected articles were assessed using the "guidelines for evaluating prevalence studies," and findings were synthesized narratively. Among 19 studies that met the inclusion criteria, two articles were excluded due to low methodological quality and 17 articles were included in the review. The prevalence of DV during pregnancy in Nigeria ranged between 2.3% and 44.6% with lifetime prevalence rates ranging between 33.1% and 63.2%. Physical, sexual, psychological, and verbal abuses were the most frequent types of DV reported in this review. The most common perpetrators were husbands, as reported in 11 of the 17 studies. Pregnant women between the ages of 20 and 30 years were the most common victims of DV. Our review suggests high prevalence of DV in pregnancy among women in Nigeria and higher lifetime prevalence. However, determining an overall, synthesized accurate prevalence rate of DV within this population based on existing evidence presents a challenge. The findings have important implications for stakeholders such as planners, policy makers, maternity care providers, and researchers in public health and social policy at national, regional, and international levels toward combating the issue.

Communication between medical professionals and patients is an important aspect of therapy and patient satisfaction. Common barriers that get in the way of effective communication in this sphere include: (1) gender, age, and cultural differences; (2) physical or psychological discomfort or pain; (3) medical literacy; and (4) distraction due to technological factors or simply being overworked. The author examines these communicative barriers from a philosophical lens and then utilizes Martin Heidegger's phenomenology and hermeneutics to provide guidance for medical professional-patient interactions. The phenomenological approach espoused emphasizes the particular, contextual nature of such interactions, and thus is opposed to abstract, theoretical principles. Heidegger's hermeneutics provides a philosophical approach to communication that may guide the back-and-forth interpretation that should happen between medical professionals and patients to achieve effective communication.

To investigate neurocognitive deficits in children with Congenital Central Hypoventilation Syndrome (CCHS) by comparing them to their parents, since parents comprise a particularly suitable control group matched on disease-extrinsic factors that can influence neurocognitive functioning. We compared CCHS patients to their parents and to population norms, hypothesizing that they would obtain lower intelligence test scores than both groups. We also compared patient-parent differences against patient-normative differences, to determine whether the two analytic approaches would yield different results. We administered an intelligence screening, the Shipley-2, to 21 school-aged patients (age 14.2 ± 5.5 years) with PHOX2B mutation-confirmed CCHS and their parents. Patients also received detailed clinical intellectual assessments using the Wechsler scales. CCHS patients scored significantly below parents on Shipley-2 indices of intelligence, vocabulary, and abstraction, with a trend for perceptual reasoning. The CCHS patients scored significantly below population norms on indices of abstraction and perceptual reasoning. Patient-parent differences were significantly larger than patient-normative differences for vocabulary scores. CCHS patients scored significantly below population norms on Wechsler indices of intelligence, perceptual reasoning, working memory, and processing speed. CCHS may affect a broader range of cognitive abilities than previous research based on comparisons to population norms has indicated. Comparisons of CCHS children to their parents reveal deficits of vocabulary and abstract reasoning which have not been previously identified. A full understanding of the neurocognitive impact of CCHS requires comparisons between patients and other individuals such as friends, parents, or siblings who closely resemble them on disease-extrinsic characteristics.

Brucellosis is an endemic zoonotic disease in most of the developing world that causes devastating losses to the livestock industry and small-scale livestock holders. Infected animals exhibit clinical signs that are of economic significance to stakeholders and include reduced fertility, abortion, poor weight gain, lost draught power, and a substantial decline in milk production. In humans, brucellosis typically manifests as a variety of non-specific clinical signs. Chronicity and recurring febrile conditions, as well as devastating complications in pregnant women are common sequelae. In regions where the disease is endemic, brucellosis has far-reaching and deleterious effects on humans and animals alike. Deeply entrenched social misconceptions and fear of government intervention contribute to this disease continuing to smolder unchecked in most of the developing world, thereby limiting economic growth and inhibiting access to international markets. The losses in livestock productivity compromise food security and lead to shifts in the cognitive competency of the working generation, influence the propagation of gender inequality, and cause profound emotional suffering in farmers whose herds are affected. The acute and chronic symptoms of the disease in humans can result in a significant loss of workdays and a decline in the socioeconomic status of infected persons and their families from the associated loss of income. The burden of the disease to society includes significant human healthcare costs for diagnosis and treatment, and non-healthcare costs such as public education efforts to reduce disease transmission. Brucellosis places significant burdens on the human healthcare system and limits the economic growth of individuals, communities, and nations where such development is especially important to diminish the prevalence of poverty. The implementation of public policy focused on mitigating the socioeconomic effects of brucellosis in human and animal populations is desperately needed. When developing a plan to mitigate the associated consequences, it is vital to consider both the abstract and quantifiable effects. This requires an interdisciplinary and collaborative, or One Health, approach that consists of public education, the development of an infrastructure for disease surveillance and reporting in both veterinary and medical fields, and campaigns for control in livestock and wildlife species.

To describe obstetrical providers' delivery preferences and attitudes towards caesarean section without medical indication, including on maternal request, and to examine the association between provider characteristics and preferences/attitudes. Cross-sectional study. Two public and two private hospitals in Argentina. Obstetrician-gynaecologists and midwives who provide prenatal care and/or labour/delivery services. Providers in hospitals with at least 1000 births per year completed a self-administered, anonymous survey. Provider delivery preference for low-risk women, perception of women's preferred delivery method, support for a woman's right to choose her delivery method and willingness to perform caesarean section on maternal request. 168 providers participated (89.8% coverage rate). Providers (93.2%) preferred a vaginal delivery for their patients in the absence of a medical indication for caesarean section. Whereas 74.4% of providers supported their patient's right to choose a delivery method in the absence of a medical indication for caesarean section and 66.7% would perform a caesarean section upon maternal request, only 30.4% would consider a non-medically indicated caesarean section for their own personal delivery or that of their partner. In multivariate adjusted analysis, providers in the private sector [odds ratio (OR) 4.70, 95% CI 1.19-18.62] and obstetrician-gynaecologists (OR 4.37, 95% CI 1.58-12.09) were more willing than either providers working in the public/both settings or midwives to perform a caesarean section on maternal request. Despite the ethical debate surrounding non-medically indicated caesarean sections, we observe very high levels of support, especially by providers in the private sector and obstetrician-gynaecologists, as aligned with the high caesarean section rates in Argentina. Non-medically indicated c-section? 74% of sampled Argentine OB providers support women's right to choose.

Review the price elasticity of alcoholic beverages to identify the characteristics we should take into account to make a tax policy proposal. Systematic review of articles in EBSCOhost that include in their abstract and title the words alcohol and elasticity and alcohol and tax, over the last 20 years in academic journals in English. We found 11 references. Although price elasticity is quite similar across countries, it is heterogeneous with regard togender, age, consumption level and type of beverage. Ad-hoc policies proved ineffective due to the substitution effect, and regressive in their impact on populations with lower levels of income and consumption. Tax policies should be applied to all alcoholic beverages based on their volume of alcohol and all measures, such as the minimum price per unit, should be complemented with other policies.

Exceptionally high levels of interpersonal violence have triggered a call by many experts for the need to determine effective ways to address the onset and effects of exposure to interpersonal violence. The specific aim of this study was to identify and draw on existing promising practices to make a more informed decision on strategies to develop a contextually relevant intervention that focused on the promotion of positive forms of masculinity to create safety and peace. This study used a qualitative meta-synthesis (QMS) technique to integrate and interpret findings from various intervention studies that focused on males and/or gender. An in-depth literature search yielded a total of 827 papers that met the search criteria. After removal of duplicates, abstract review, and review of the full texts, the subsequent sample for this meta-synthesis included 12 intervention programs and 23 studies. This QMS revealed the value of a comprehensive approach, using multiple strategies, employing participatory and interactive methods, and promoting social mobilization to address interpersonal violence. The promotion of positive forms of masculinity as an interpersonal violence prevention strategy is a much-needed, relatively untapped approach to generating safety and peace for both males and females.

To synthesize the research findings about the relationship between mindfulness-based parenting interventions and symptoms of depression in parents. The terms mindfulness, parent or mother, and depression were used to search PubMed, the Cumulative Index for Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Scopus, and PsychInfo/OVID databases. A limitation was not set for date of publication. The database searches resulted in 198 articles for abstract review, 7 of which remained after the application of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Three randomized controlled trials and four descriptive studies were included in the review. Three studies included mothers as the only participants; the other studies included a small to moderate percentage of fathers. Studies were reviewed for findings relevant to the relationship between mindfulness-based parenting interventions and symptoms of depression in parents according to their respective research designs. Analysis of the randomized controlled trials showed that mindfulness-based parenting interventions had significant positive treatment effects on symptoms of depression. Analysis of the descriptive studies showed significant inverse associations between mindfulness and depression scores. Although findings were consistent across the studies, the studies varied significantly in participant characteristics, intervention frequency and duration, and measurement tools. Further research is recommended with regard to the use of mindfulness-based parenting interventions to influence symptoms of depression in diverse populations. Samples of parents with culturally, economically, or racially diverse backgrounds have not been well-studied in relation to mindfulness-based parenting. Consistent use of frameworks, intervention types, and measurement tools across studies will strengthen the body of evidence.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Children of parent with severe mental illness are often carrying a caring burden; they keep the illness in the family, are documented to be stigmatized, bullied and to take special attention to their mentally ill parent's health and well-being. Little is however known about these children's experiences when growing up in a small-scale society. WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Children's experiences of living with a parent with severe mental illness in the small-scale society (Faroe Islands) are paradoxical, life is often unreasonable and evidently contradictory but anyway connected. The results show that "everybody knows everybody" which refers to that, in the small-scale society, it is difficult to be anonymous. The children were familiar with that people talked and had a prejudiced attitude; this resulted that the participants were constantly reminded of their mental ill parent's difference, and they were feeling less worthy than their pals. Children of parents with severe mental illness in a small-scale society need to support from the close family as well as mental healthcare professionals. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The study adds knowledge about the challenges that children of mental ill parents have to go through. Dialogue among mental healthcare colleagues not only about caring for the sick parent but also about modes of caring for the children and the family at large would deepen the staff's knowing of the need for family-centred care within mental health care. Introduction An estimated 23% of children worldwide live with a parent experiencing mental illness. These children are exposed to emotional and psychosocial challenges. Little is known about these children when living in small-scale societies. Aim To explore how adults, who as children lived with parents experiencing mental illness in a small-scale society, recalled their childhood life. Method Individual interviews with 11 adults were analysed using content analysis. Results Living as a child with a parent experiencing mental illness in a small-scale society was described as "living in a paradox" which emerged from three categories: "intergenerational help and caring," "barriers understanding parental illness" and "everybody knows everybody". The children received little or no support from family members, nor from health and education professionals. Discussion In a small-scale society, stigma surrounding mental illness is notable. Families often attempt to conceal mental illness from outsiders with negative or adverse effects on children. Implications for practice Mental healthcare professionals need to consider the needs of children who have parents experiencing mental illness. It is imperative for the well-being of the patients' children to support them in understanding what is happening, turn gossiping in a positive direction and address stigma in the communities.

Despite the widespread research recommendations for psychiatric nurses and other mental health professionals to include parents in adolescent depression treatment, no systematic reviews have yet synthesized the findings from intervention studies that included parents in the treatment and/or prevention of adolescent depression. Therefore, this systematic review was conducted to (i) identify and describe clinical trials that included parents as an integral component of adolescent depression interventions, (ii) examine the effectiveness of these trials in reducing depressive symptoms, and (iii) evaluate their methodological quality. We systematically searched the databases PubMed and PsycINFO. The search strategy adhered to the PRISMA statement to guide identification and selection of articles. Further, a structured evaluation form was adapted from the CONSORT statement and methodological literature to evaluate the elicited clinical trials. A total of 288 unique articles met criteria for abstract level screening, 45 articles were selected for full-text review, and 16 articles were included in the final analysis. We found that (i) available approaches to include parents in adolescent depression interventions vary in their theoretical stance, purpose, sample characteristics, and measured outcomes, (ii) the health outcomes of these approaches seemed to be contingent upon the nature of parental involvement, and (iii) effective translation of these approaches into practice needs to be considered in the light of their methodological rigour. Our review revealed a variety of promising approaches to utilize the parental and family contexts as a means of preventing or treating adolescent depression. However, more research is needed to determine which interventions, within what contexts, and using what resources will facilitate the best health outcomes for adolescents with depression and their parents.

This study systematically explored the barriers and facilitators to routine antenatal HIV testing from the perspective of pregnant women in sub-Saharan Africa during the implementation period of the Millennium Development Goals. Articles published between 2000 and 2015 were selected after reviewing the title, abstract, and references. Twenty-seven studies published in 11 African countries were eligible for the current study and reviewed. The most common barriers identified include communication with male partners, patient convenience and accessibility, health system and health-care provider issues, fear of disclosure, HIV-related stigma, the burden of other responsibilities at home, and the perception of antenatal care as a "woman's job." Routine testing among pregnant women is crucial for the eradication of infant and child HIV infections. Further understanding the interplay of social and cultural factors, particularly the role of women in intimate relationships and the influence of men on antenatal care seeking behaviors, is necessary to continue the work of the Millennium Development Goals.

To investigate the risks of attempted and completed suicide in women who experienced a stillbirth, miscarriage, or termination of pregnancy within 1 year postnatally and compare this risk with that in women who experienced a live birth. A nested case-control study. Linking three nationwide population-based data sets in Taiwan: the National Health Insurance Research Database, the National Birth Registry and the National Death Registry. In all, 485 and 350 cases of attempted and completed suicide, respectively, were identified during 2001-11; for each case, ten controls were randomly selected and matched to the cases according to the age and year of delivery. Conditional logistic regression. Attempted and completed suicidal statuses were determined. The rates of attempted suicide increased in the women who experienced fetal loss. The risk of completed suicide was higher in women who experienced a stillbirth [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 5.2; 95% CI 1.77-15.32], miscarriage (aOR 3.81; 95% CI 2.81-5.15), or termination of pregnancy (aOR 3.12; 95% CI 1.77-5.5) than in those who had a live birth. Furthermore, the risk of attempted suicide was significantly higher in women who experienced a miscarriage (aOR 2.1; 95% CI 1.66-2.65) or termination of pregnancy (aOR 2.5; 95% CI 1.63-3.82). In addition to marital and educational statuses, psychological illness increased the risk of suicidal behaviour. The risk of suicide might increase in women who experience fetal loss within 1 year postnatally. Healthcare professionals and family members should enhance their sensitivity to care for possible mental distress, particularly for women who have experienced a stillbirth. Suicide risk increased in women who had a stillbirth, miscarriage, or termination of pregnancy within 1 year postnatally.

Chronic rheumatic disorders are characterized by inflammation and chronic pain, and both anxiety and depression have been frequently observed in these patients. Depression and chronic pain are recognized as risk factors for the development of suicidal behaviors. Accordingly, the objective of the present review is to provide a comprehensive review of suicidal behaviors associated with rheumatic diseases. Medline and EMBASE were searched for English language publications using key words related with rheumatic diseases, suicide, suicide attempts, and suicidal ideation. 34 records (30 full-length published papers and 4 studies published in abstract form) that included data related to the frequency and/or potential determinants of suicidal behaviors in rheumatic diseases were included in the review. It was found that both suicidal ideation and completed suicide seem to be more frequent in patients experiencing systemic lupus erythematosus, fibromyalgia and arthritis. Major determinants were comorbid depression in fibromyalgia and arthritis, and neuropsychiatric disease in systemic lupus erythematosus. Based on these findings, suicide risk should be assessed in patients suffering from systemic lupus erythematosus, fibromyalgia and/or arthritis.

We propose that class is inversely related to a propensity for using wise reasoning (recognizing limits of their knowledge, consider world in flux and change, acknowledges and integrate different perspectives) in interpersonal situations, contrary to established class advantage in abstract cognition. Two studies-an online survey from regions differing in economic affluence (

To determine the publication rate of abstracts presented at the annual meetings of the Arthroscopy Association of North America (AANA) from 2011 through 2014 and to compare the level of evidence (LoE) between published and unpublished studies. A comprehensive search was performed using PubMed and Google Scholar for all abstracts given as podium presentations at the 2011 through 2014 AANA Annual Meetings. A publication rate was calculated from all presented abstracts. Each abstract was reviewed to determine the study's LoE (I-V or nonclinical). Among published studies, the average time from presentation to publication was calculated. The journals in which these studies were published were also noted. A total of 290 abstracts were given as podium presentations at AANA Annual Meetings from 2011 through 2014. Of the 290 studies presented, 195 (195/290, 67%) were published in peer-reviewed journals. Of the 195 published studies, 184 (184/195, 94%) were published within 3 years of the meeting date. Studies were most frequently published in Arthroscopy (n = 59) and the American Journal of Sports Medicine (n = 48). The average time from presentation to publication was 12.2 months. Overall, there was no significant difference between published and unpublished studies in terms of LoE (P = .24). In recent years, studies presented at AANA Annual Meetings have achieved a high publication rate (67%). Based on other studies, this publication rate is comparable to recent American Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine (AOSSM) Annual Meetings and is higher than that of AANA Annual Meetings from previous years. The level of evidence of presented studies does not necessarily correlate with eventual publication. The publication rate and level of evidence of podium presentations at AANA demonstrate the scientific impact the annual meeting has for peers pursuing orthopaedic research.

Prior research demonstrates that family history influences breast cancer prevention decisions among healthy women at elevated risk of the disease. Drawing on in-depth interviews with 50 African American and White women, this study reveals an important psychological mechanism of this relationship: exposure to cancer among loved ones. Four distinct categories of cancer exposure (Abstract, Generalized, Practical, and Traumatic), distinguished by the characteristics of women's experiences with cancer among family members and close friends, are associated with differences in knowledge and decisions about breast cancer prevention options. Racial differences and distinct experiences among those with 

Efforts to reduce expensive health service utilization, contain costs, improve health outcomes, and address the social determinants of health require research that demonstrates the economic value of health services in population health across a variety of settings. Social workers are an integral part of the US health care system, yet the specific contributions of social work to health and cost-containment outcomes are unknown. The social work profession's person-in-environment framework and unique skillset, particularly around addressing social determinants of health, hold promise for improving health and cost outcomes. To systematically review international studies of the effect of social work-involved health services on health and economic outcomes. We searched 4 databases (PubMed, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Social Science Citation Index) by using "social work" AND "cost" and "health" for trials published from 1990 to 2017. Abstract review was followed by full-text review of all studies meeting inclusion criteria (social work services, physical health, and cost outcomes). Of the 831 abstracts found, 51 (6.1%) met criteria. Full text review yielded 16 studies involving more than 16 000 participants, including pregnant and pediatric patients, vulnerable low-income adults, and geriatric patients. We examined study quality, health and utilization outcomes, and cost outcomes. Average study quality was fair. Studies of 7 social work-led services scored higher on quality ratings than 9 studies of social workers as team members. Most studies showed positive effects on health and service utilization; cost-savings were consistent across nearly all studies. Despite positive overall effects on outcomes, variability in study methods, health problems, and cost analyses render generalizations difficult. Controlled hypothesis-driven trials are needed to examine the health and cost effects of specific services delivered by social workers independently and through interprofessional team-based care. Public Health Implications. The economic and health benefits reported in these studies suggest that the broad health perspective taken by the social work profession for patient, personal, and environmental needs may be particularly valuable for achieving goals of cost containment, prevention, and population health. Novel approaches that move beyond cost savings to articulate the specific value-added of social work are much needed. As health service delivery focuses increasingly on interprofessional training, practice, and integrated care, more research testing the impact of social work prevention and intervention efforts on the health and well-being of vulnerable populations while also measuring societal costs and benefits is essential.

Bioethics education and discussions about ethical dilemmas are being increasingly reduced to teaching students how to balance the four, easily memorised philosophical principles popularised by influential American philosophers Tom Beauchamp and Jim Childress. The reality is that human beings approach and comprehend moral issues in diverse ways shaped by shared histories, cultural norms and values, kinship systems, lived experiences and existing socio-political realities. Therefore, ethical discourse limited to a culturally myopic Principlism that disregards the indigenous landscape can be an abstract and meaningless venture. The different moral lenses through which people can view the same issue is highlighted in this essay. It compares the analyses offered by American bioethicist Arthur Caplan of the blocking of polio vaccination by militants in northern Pakistan and of issues related to posthumous insemination, with the more nuanced, contextualised discussions about both topics offered by Pakistani students of bioethics in our Center. For this discipline to resonate with and make an impact on those we teach, an inclusive, more reflective and socially relevant approach is required. In my opinion, bioethics is a contact sport that should not be transformed into merely an academic exercise.

The act of communication is a complex, transient and often abstract phenomenon that involves many stakeholders, each of whom has their own perspective: the speaker, the listener, the observer and the researcher. Current research practices in voice disorder are frequently framed through a single lens - that of the researcher/clinician or their participant/patient. This single lens approach risks overlooking significant barriers to the basic human right of freedom of expression for those with a voice disorder as it omits consideration of the impact of voice disorder on the listener, and consideration of the wider impact of the voice in the occupational context. Recent research in the area of voice has developed a multiple lens and subsequent Stakeholder Model that acknowledges the experience and reality of multiple stakeholders viewing the same phenomenon, the voice. This research paradigm is built on Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as it considers the realities of all stakeholders in forming a deeper understanding of the causality, impact and aspects of communication disorder. The Stakeholder Model will be presented as a suggestion for future investigations of communication disorders more widely.

Antibiotic resistance (ABR) is an urgent problem globally, with overuse and misuse of antibiotics being one of the main drivers of antibiotic-resistant infections. There is increasing evidence that the burden of community-acquired infections such as urinary tract infections and bloodstream infections (both susceptible and resistant) may differ by ethnicity, although the reasons behind this relationship are not well defined. It has been demonstrated that socioeconomic status and ethnicity are often highly correlated with each other; however, it is not yet known whether accounting for deprivation completely explains any discrepancy seen in infection risk. There have currently been no systematic reviews summarising the evidence for the relationship between ethnicity and antibiotic resistance or prescribing. This protocol will outline how we will conduct this systematic literature review and meta-analysis investigating whether there is an association between patient ethnicity and (1) risk of antibiotic-resistant infections or (2) levels of antibiotic prescribing in high-income countries. We will search PubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, Global Health, Scopus and CINAHL using MESH terms where applicable. Two reviewers will conduct title/abstract screening, data extraction and quality assessment independently. The Critical Appraisal Skills Programme (CASP) checklist will be used for cohort and case-control studies, and the Cochrane collaboration's risk of bias tool will be used for randomised control trials, if they are included. Meta-analyses will be performed by calculating the minority ethnic group to majority ethnic group odds ratios or risk ratios for each study and presenting an overall pooled odds ratio for the two outcomes. The Grading of Recommendations, Assessments, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach will be used to assess the overall quality of the body of evidence. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we will aim to collate the available evidence of whether there is a difference in rates of AMR and/or antibiotic prescribing in minority vs. majority ethnic groups in high-income countries. Additionally, this review will highlight areas where more research needs to be conducted and may provide insight into what may cause differences in this relationship, should they be seen. PROSPERO ( CRD42016051533 ).

Communication involves a sender, a receiver and a shared code operating through shared rules. Breach of communication results from disruption to any of these basic components of a communicative chain, although assessment of communication abilities typically focuses on senders/receivers, on two assumptions: first, that their command of features and rules of the language in question (the code), such as sounds, words or word order, as described in linguists' theorisations, represents the full scope of linguistic competence; and second, that languages are stable, homogeneous entities, unaffected by their users' communicative needs. Bypassing the role of the code in successful communication assigns decisive rights to abstract languages rather than to real-life language users, routinely leading to suspected or diagnosed speech-language disorder in academic and clinical assessment of multilingual children's communicative skills. This commentary reflects on whether code-driven assessment practices comply with the spirit of Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is the most common form of diabetes and is preventable in many instances. African-Americans are disproportionately represented in T2DM statistics. The strategies in place to prevent disease development in this population warrant critical examination. A scoping review of literature was conducted to provide an overview of the largely inconsistent approach to African-American T2DM prevention research. Specific research questions included: (1) How are African-Americans treated in the existing T2DM literature? (1a) Are African-Americans primarily treated as a homogenous group in the literature? (1b) Has the literature addressed middle-class African-Americans? (2) Is the T2DM prevention literature focused on primary or secondary prevention? The review included articles published from 1985 to 2016, examining the methodology and approach toward African-Americans in each article. The review yielded 653 unduplicated articles. Through title, abstract, and full-text screenings, 381 articles were excluded. Of the remaining articles only 37% were focused on the prevention of T2DM development, and only 22.7% described a participant education component. The majority of the studies were observational (n = 19). Only 53.5% included majority African-American participants. Samples ranged from 2 to 27,899 individuals, which were often treated as homogeneous groups in terms of income and/or education (62.3%). The approach to T2DM prevention in African-Americans is largely inconsistent, which may be contributing to stagnation in this area of research.

The female perineum becomes suffused and stretched during pregnancy, and further strain during vaginal childbirth contributes to approximately 85% of women experiencing some degree of trauma to the perineal region. Multiple factors play a role in the type and severity of trauma experienced, including parity, delivery method, and local practices. There is ongoing debate about best midwifery practice to reduce perineal trauma. Once perineal trauma has occurred, treatment also varies greatly, depending on its degree and severity, local practice and customs, and personal preference. In order to optimise wound-healing outcomes, it is important that wounds are assessed and managed in an appropriate and timely manner. A perineal wound may cause significant physical and/or psychological impact in the short or long term, however little evidence is available on this subject.Antenatal education serves to prepare women and their partners for pregnancy, delivery and the postpartum period. The delivery of this education varies widely in type, content, and nature. This review examined antenatal education which is specifically tailored towards perineal care and wound healing in the postnatal period via formal channels. Appropriate patient education positively impacts on wound-healing rates and compliance with wound care. Risk factors that contribute to the breakdown of wounds and poor healing rates may be addressed antenatally in order to optimise postnatal wound healing. It is important to assess whether or not antenatal wound-care education positively affects perineal healing, in order to empower women to incorporate best practice, evidence-based treatment with this important aspect of self-care in the immediate postnatal period. To evaluate the effects of antenatal education on perineal wound healing in postnatal women who have birthed in a hospital setting, and who have experienced a break in the skin of the perineum as a result of a tear or episiotomy, or both. We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 September 2017), ClinicalTrials.gov (8th September 2017), the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (8th September 2017) and reference lists of retrieved studies. We considered randomised controlled trials (RCTs) which referred to all formal methods of antenatal education and addressed care of a potential perineal wound as a result of a tear or episiotomy, which was experienced by pregnant women who planned to give birth within a hospital setting.Trials using a cluster-RCT and a quasi-randomised design would have been eligible for inclusion in this review but none were identified. Cross-over trials were not eligible for inclusion in this review. Studies published in abstract form would have been eligible for inclusion in this review, but none were identified.We planned to consider all formal methods of antenatal education which addressed care of a perineal wound. We also planned to consider all contact points where there was an opportunity for formal education, including midwifery appointments, antenatal education classes, obstetrician appointments, general practitioner appointments and physiotherapist appointments. Two review authors independently assessed titles and abstracts of the studies identified by the search strategy for their eligibility. No studies met the inclusion criteria for this review. We excluded one study and one other study is ongoing. We set out to evaluate the RCT evidence pertaining to the impact of antenatal education on perineal wound healing in postnatal women who have birthed in a hospital setting, and who experienced a break in the skin of the perineum as a result of a tear or episiotomy, or both. However, no studies met the inclusion criteria. There is a lack of evidence concerning whether or not antenatal education relating to perineal wound healing in this cohort of women will change the outcome for these women in relation to wound healing, infection rate, re-attendance or re-admission to hospital, pain, health-related quality of life, maternal bonding, and negative emotional experiences. Further study is warranted in this area given the significant physical, psychological and economic impact of perineal wounds, and the large proportion of childbearing women who have experienced a postnatal wound. The benefits of any future research in this field would be maximised by incorporating women in a range of socio-economic groups, and with a range of healthcare options. This research could take both a qualitative and a quantitative approach and examine the outcomes identified in this review in order to assess fully the potential benefits of a tailored antenatal package, and to make recommendations for future practice. There is currently no evidence to inform practice in this regard.

Internet addiction (IA) is associated with a high rate of co-morbid mental disorders, especially depression, anxiety disorders, ADHD and personality disorders and a considerable level of psychological strain. In terms of risk assessment, the present work investigates the current research literature on suicidal behavior and non-suicidal self-injurious behavior (NSSI). We performed a systematic literature search in 14 databases on title and abstract level for the most common keywords for IA, NSSI and suicidality. After deduction of multiple items, 2334 articles remained. They were filtered per inclusion and exclusion criteria. We identified studies that examined the relationship between IA, NSSI and suicidality, which were assessed by validated psychometric instruments. This allowed a total of 15 studies to be included. The relationship between IA and suicidality was examined in 10 studies, four studies examined the relationship of IA, suicidality, and NSSI, and one study exclusively focused on IA and NSSHB. All studies showed higher prevalence for NSSI and respectively suicidality of the subjects with an IA compared to subjects without IA, with point prevalence varying considerably between 1.6-18.7%. The results of the included publications suggest that Internet dependency is associated with an increased rate of non-suicidal self-harming behavior and increased suicidality, with suicidal ideation being more closely related to IA than suicidal actions. In order to develop a better understanding of causal relationships between IA, NSSI and suicidality, further longitudinal studies are required.  Against the background of the presented studies NSSHB and suicidality need to be explicitly addressed within the assessment and treatment of IA patients.

Interventions aiming to coordinate services for the community-based dementia population vary in components, organisation and implementation. In this review we aimed to investigate the views of stakeholders on the key components of community-based interventions coordinating care in dementia. We searched four databases from inception to June 2015; Medline, The Cochrane Library, EMBASE and PsycINFO, this was aided by a search of four grey literature databases, and backward and forward citation tracking of included papers. Title and abstract screening was followed by a full text screen by two independent reviewers, and quality was assessed using the CASP appraisal tool. We then conducted thematic synthesis on extracted data. A total of seven papers from five independent studies were included in the review, and encompassed the views of over 100 participants from three countries. Through thematic synthesis we identified 32 initial codes that were grouped into 5 second-order themes: (1) case manager had four associated codes and described preferences for the case manager personal and professional attributes, including a sound knowledge in dementia and availability of local services; (2) communication had five associated codes and emphasized the importance stakeholders placed on multichannel communication with service users, as well as between multidisciplinary teams and across organisations; (3) intervention had 11 associated codes which focused primarily on the practicalities of implementation such as the contact type and frequency between case managers and service users, and the importance of case manager training and service evaluation; (4) resources had five associated codes which outlined stakeholder views on the required resources for coordinating interventions and potential overlap with existing resources, as well as arising issues when available resources do not meet those required for successful implementation; and (5) support had seven associated codes that reflect the importance that was placed on the support network around the case manager and the investment of professionals involved directly in care as well as the wider professional network. The synthesis of relevant qualitative studies has shown how various stakeholder groups considered dementia care coordination interventions to be acceptable, useful and appropriate for dementia care, and have clear preferences for components, implementation methods and settings of these interventions. By incorporating stakeholders' perspectives and preferences when planning and developing coordinating interventions we may increase the likelihood of successful implementation and patient benefits.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The strength of a relationship between people with mental health difficulties and professionals has been linked to patients feeling suicidal. A relationship has been found between how defeated and trapped people with mental health difficulties feel and how suicidal they feel. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study explored the relationship between alliance, suicidality, defeat and entrapment in people admitted to mental health wards as previous research has focused on people in the community. Patient-rated defeat, entrapment and suicidality are related in this sample of people admitted to mental health wards. A relationship was found between how well nurses said they bonded with their named patient and how trapped the patients felt by their environment. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Nurses should consider if patients are feeling defeated or trapped when helping people with mental health difficulties to feel less suicidal. Introduction Suicidality is prevalent worldwide, particularly in people who access mental health services. The quality of therapeutic alliance between people with mental health difficulties and staff has been associated with suicidality but only in community settings. Defeat and entrapment are correlated with suicidality and may mediate any relationship between alliance and suicidality. Therefore, this exploratory study explored these relationships in people admitted to mental health wards. Aim To explore defeat, entrapment, suicidality and alliance between nurses and people admitted to mental health wards. Method Fifty inpatient nurse-patient dyads completed questionnaires regarding demographics, defeat, entrapment, suicidality and alliance with their named nurse. Nurses completed questionnaires on demographics, alliance with their patient and the patients' suicidality. Results Defeat, entrapment and suicidality were correlated. A correlation between nurse-rated bond and external entrapment was found, but no other correlations between alliance, defeat, entrapment and suicidality were statistically significant. Discussion and clinical implications Ward-based nurses should consider the relationship between defeat, entrapment and suicidality when developing interventions to improve suicidality. Although there was no evidence of a relationship between total alliance and suicidality, developing closer bonds with patients may reduce patients' feelings of being trapped by their environment.

Applying scientific knowledge to confront societal challenges is a difficult task, an issue known as the science-practice gap. In Ecology and Conservation, scientific evidence has been seldom used directly to support decision-making, despite calls for an increasing role of ecological science in developing solutions for a sustainable future. To date, multiple causes of the science-practice gap and diverse approaches to link science and practice in Ecology and Conservation have been proposed. To foster a transparent debate and broaden our understanding of the difficulties of using scientific knowledge, we reviewed the perceived causes of the science-practice gap, aiming to: (i) identify the perspectives of ecologists and conservation scientists on this problem, (ii) evaluate the predominance of these perspectives over time and across journals, and (iii) assess them in light of disciplines studying the role of science in decision-making. We based our review on 1563 sentences describing causes of the science-practice gap extracted from 122 articles and on discussions with eight scientists on how to classify these sentences. The resulting process-based framework describes three distinct perspectives on the relevant processes, knowledge and actors in the science-practice interface. The most common perspective assumes only scientific knowledge should support practice, perceiving a one-way knowledge flow from science to practice and recognizing flaws in knowledge generation, communication, and/or use. The second assumes that both scientists and decision-makers should contribute to support practice, perceiving a two-way knowledge flow between science and practice through joint knowledge-production/integration processes, which, for several reasons, are perceived to occur infrequently. The last perspective was very rare, and assumes scientists should put their results into practice, but they rarely do. Some causes (e.g. cultural differences between scientists and decision-makers) are shared with other disciplines, while others seem specific to Ecology and Conservation (e.g. inadequate research scales). All identified causes require one of three general types of solutions, depending on whether the causal factor can (e.g. inadequate research questions) or cannot (e.g. scientific uncertainty) be changed, or if misconceptions (e.g. undervaluing abstract knowledge) should be solved. The unchanged predominance of the one-way perspective over time may be associated with the prestige of evidence-based conservation and suggests that debates in Ecology and Conservation lag behind trends in other disciplines towards bidirectional views ascribing larger roles to decision-makers. In turn, the two-way perspective seems primarily restricted to research traditions historically isolated from mainstream conservation biology. All perspectives represented superficial views of decision-making by not accounting for limits to human rationality, complexity of decision-making contexts, fuzzy science-practice boundaries, ambiguity brought about by science, and different types of knowledge use. However, joint knowledge-production processes from the two-way perspective can potentially allow for democratic decision-making processes, explicit discussions of values and multiple types of science use. To broaden our understanding of the interface and foster productive science-practice linkages, we argue for dialogue among different research traditions within Ecology and Conservation, joint knowledge-production processes between scientists and decision-makers and interdisciplinarity across Ecology, Conservation and Political Science in both research and education.

Data integrity is critical to regulatory compliance, and the fundamental reason for 21 CFR Part 11 published by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). FDA published the first guideline in 1963, and since then FDA and European Union (EU) have published numerous guidelines on various topics related to data integrity for the pharmaceutical industry. Regulators wanted to make certain that industry capture accurate data during the drug development lifecycle and through commercialization-consider the number of warning letters issued lately by inspectors across the globe on data integrity. This article discusses the history of regulations put forward by various regulatory bodies, the term 

Genetic and other biological factors may lead to differences in disease behavior among children with inflammatory bowel disease of different races, which may be further modified by disparities in care delivery. Using the Kids' Inpatient Database, we aimed to evaluate differences in the management of pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel disease by race, focusing on length of stay (LOS). We performed a cross-sectional analysis using 2000 to 2012 data from the Kids' Inpatient Database, a nationally representative database. We identified pediatric patients (≤18 years of age) with discharge diagnoses of Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). We used multivariable logistic regression to evaluate the relationship between race and LOS, controlling for age, payer status need for surgery, and year of admission. We identified 27,295 hospitalizations for children with inflammatory bowel disease (62% CD and 38% UC), Compared with white patients with CD, black (adjusted odds ratio 1.37; 95% confidence interval, 1.22-1.53; P < 0.001) and Hispanic patients (adjusted odds ratio: 1.37; 95% confidence interval: 1.19-1.59; P < 0.001) with CD demonstrated increased odds of a LOS greater than the 75th percentile. When compared with white patients with UC, Hispanic patients also demonstrated increased odds of a LOS greater than the 75th percentile (adjusted odds ratio: 1.20; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-1.42, P = 0.015). After controlling for age, year of admission, and clinical phenotypes, black and Hispanic patients with CD and Hispanic patients with UC had longer LOS than white patients. These may be due to differences in provider/hospital characteristics, socioeconomic differences, and/or differences in genetics and other biological factors (see Video Abstract, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/IBD/B656).

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Many nursing students have inadequate preparation for practice in mental health nursing in the United States and China. The concept of mental illness has different connotations in different cultures. Studies differ from country to country concerning the influence of nursing education on students' knowledge about and attitudes towards mental disorders. There is a lack of cross-cultural research that takes a broad perspective to explore how nursing students' knowledge and beliefs about mental disorders are influenced by the culture within education and healthcare systems. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Nursing students in the United States and China shared similar views on a broad range of intervention options including professional help, psychotropic medications and activity interventions for managing depression and schizophrenia. The major difference between the two nursing student groups was that the Chinese students showed more preference to occasional alcohol consumption and specialized therapies including cognitive-behavioural therapy and electroconvulsive therapy and the US students held less skepticism towards traditional and religious practices as possible treatment options for depression and schizophrenia. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The Chinese nursing students need to be educated about safe alcohol consumption guidelines adopted by the National Health and Family Planning Commission. The US nursing students need to increase their awareness of national practice guidelines for managing mental disorders, particularly with respect to the use of specialized therapies such as cognitive-behavioural therapy and electroconvulsive therapy. We support professional and psychosocial interventions in caring for patients with mental disorders. INTRODUCTION Nursing students in the United States and China have reported inadequate preparedness for practice in mental health nursing. It is important to investigate nursing students' mental health literacy levels for a better understanding of their practice readiness in mental health field upon completion of their education. Aim This study was aimed at developing an understanding of American and Chinese nursing students' mental health literacy regarding the effectiveness of specific interventions for managing depression and schizophrenia. Method The "Australian National Mental Health Literacy Survey" was completed by a group of 310 nursing students including 152 Americans and 158 Chinese between April 2016 and April 2017 to compare students' rated intervention options on two provided vignettes. Results The two student groups reached consensus on many intervention options. However, the Chinese students showed more preference to occasional alcohol consumption and specialized therapies and the US students held less skepticism towards traditional practices as treatment options for depression and schizophrenia. Discussion and implications for practice The findings support professional and psychosocial interventions in caring for patients with mental disorders. There is a significant need for specific education on safe alcohol consumption guidelines for Chinese nursing students and clinical practice guidelines for managing mental disorders for American nursing students.

It is widely acknowledged that health policy and management decisions rarely reflect research evidence. Therefore, it is important to determine how to improve evidence-informed decision-making. The primary aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the effectiveness of research implementation strategies for promoting evidence-informed policy and management decisions in healthcare. The secondary aim of the review was to describe factors perceived to be associated with effective strategies and the inter-relationship between these factors. An electronic search was developed to identify studies published between January 01, 2000, and February 02, 2016. This was supplemented by checking the reference list of included articles, systematic reviews, and hand-searching publication lists from prominent authors. Two reviewers independently screened studies for inclusion, assessed methodological quality, and extracted data. After duplicate removal, the search strategy identified 3830 titles. Following title and abstract screening, 96 full-text articles were reviewed, of which 19 studies (21 articles) met all inclusion criteria. Three studies were included in the narrative synthesis, finding policy briefs including expert opinion might affect intended actions, and intentions persisting to actions for public health policy in developing nations. Workshops, ongoing technical assistance, and distribution of instructional digital materials may improve knowledge and skills around evidence-informed decision-making in US public health departments. Tailored, targeted messages were more effective in increasing public health policies and programs in Canadian public health departments compared to messages and a knowledge broker. Sixteen studies (18 articles) were included in the thematic synthesis, leading to a conceptualisation of inter-relating factors perceived to be associated with effective research implementation strategies. A unidirectional, hierarchal flow was described from (1) establishing an imperative for practice change, (2) building trust between implementation stakeholders and (3) developing a shared vision, to (4) actioning change mechanisms. This was underpinned by the (5) employment of effective communication strategies and (6) provision of resources to support change. Evidence is developing to support the use of research implementation strategies for promoting evidence-informed policy and management decisions in healthcare. The design of future implementation strategies should be based on the inter-relating factors perceived to be associated with effective strategies. This systematic review was registered with Prospero (record number: 42016032947).

No abstract available.

Concerns have been raised about poor-quality palliative care research and low publication rate from conference abstracts. The study objectives: to estimate the publication rate for European Association for Palliative Care research conference abstracts (2008) and explore associated characteristics and to understand reasons for non-publication. Full published papers were searched to March 2015 (Medline; Pubmed; Google Scholar) and data extracted: country of origin, study design/population/topic. Multivariate logistic regression was used to identify predictors of publication.Members of two different palliative care associations were surveyed to understand reasons for non-publication. χ Overall publication rate of the 445 proffered abstracts was 57%. In the final model, publication was more likely for oral presentations (OR 2.13; 95% CI 1.28 to 3.55; P=0.003), those from Europe (3.24; 1.09 to 9.56; P=0.033) and much less likely for non-cancer topics (0.21; 0.07 to 0.64; P=0.006). Funding status, academic unit or study design were not associated with publication. 407/1546 (26.3%) physicians responded of whom 254 (62%) had submitted a conference abstract. Full publication was associated with: oral presentation (P<0.001), international conference abstracts (P=0.01) and academic clinicians versus clinicians (P<0.001). Reasons for non-publication included: low priority for workload (53%) and time constraints (43%). The publication rate was similar to 2005 clinical conference. Probable quality markers were associated with publication: oral presentations selected by conference committee, international conference abstracts and abstracts from those with an academic appointment. Publication was given a low priority among clinical time pressures.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:• Assess the neuropsychological literature on decision making and the medical and legal assessment of capacity in patients with dementia• Identify the limitations of integrating findings from decision-making research into capacity assessments for patients with dementia ABSTRACT: Medical and legal professionals face the challenge of assessing capacity and competency to make medical, legal, and financial decisions in dementia patients with impaired decision making. While such assessments have classically focused on the capacity for complex reasoning and executive functions, research in decision making has revealed that motivational and metacognitive processes are also important. We first briefly review the neuropsychological literature on decision making and on the medical and legal assessment of capacity. Next, we discuss the limitations of integrating findings from decision-making research into capacity assessments, including the group-to-individual inference problem, the unclear role of neuroimaging in capacity assessments, and the lack of capacity measures that integrate important facets of decision making. Finally, we present several case examples where we attempt to demonstrate the potential benefits and important limitations of using decision-making research to aid in capacity determinations.

The interparental relationship in families with children with ADHD: Interactions between couple distress and child's symptoms Abstract. The impact of the family in the development and maintenance of childhood ADHD is well established. However, previous research in this field focused largely on parenting and the quality of the parent-child relationship, whereas the role of the interparental relationship has been neglected. This review summarizes the current state of research on the interactions between a couple distress and their child's ADHD and discusses interparental conflict as a risk factor for the development of ADHS-related symptoms. Based on the present knowledge, an integrative model is postulated that assumes an interaction of genetic vulnerability for childhood ADHD and a couple distress. It depicts how distress in the interparental relationship may both directly and indirectly affect the etiology, maintenance, and/or amplification of childhood ADHD-related symptoms, which in turn affect the interparental relationship. The review highlights the significance of relationship distress prevention programs for couples to prevent adjustment problems in children, and the adequate consideration of couple conflict in diagnostics and therapy among families with children with ADHD.

To describe the causes of maternal death in a population-based cohort in six low- and middle-income countries using a standardised, hierarchical, algorithmic cause of death (COD) methodology. A population-based, prospective observational study. Seven sites in six low- to middle-income countries including the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Guatemala, India (two sites), Kenya, Pakistan and Zambia. All deaths among pregnant women resident in the study sites from 2014 to December 2016. For women who died, we used a standardised questionnaire to collect clinical data regarding maternal conditions present during pregnancy and delivery. These data were analysed using a computer-based algorithm to assign cause of maternal death based on the International Classification of Disease-Maternal Mortality system (trauma, termination of pregnancy-related, eclampsia, haemorrhage, pregnancy-related infection and medical conditions). We also compared the COD results to healthcare-provider-assigned maternal COD. Assigned causes of maternal mortality. Among 158 205 women, there were 221 maternal deaths. The most common algorithm-assigned maternal COD were obstetric haemorrhage (38.6%), pregnancy-related infection (26.4%) and pre-eclampsia/eclampsia (18.2%). Agreement between algorithm-assigned COD and COD assigned by healthcare providers ranged from 75% for haemorrhage to 25% for medical causes coincident to pregnancy. The major maternal COD in the Global Network sites were haemorrhage, pregnancy-related infection and pre-eclampsia/eclampsia. This system could allow public health programmes in low- and middle-income countries to generate transparent and comparable data for maternal COD across time or regions. An algorithmic system for determining maternal cause of death in low-resource settings is described.

The Society of Military Orthopaedic Surgeons (SOMOS) is a robust academic organization with more than 1,000 members and has held annual academic scientific meetings since 1958. Currently, there is a paucity of data regarding the volume and quality of orthopaedic surgery presentations accepted for peer-reviewed publication. The purpose of this study was to answer the following questions: (1) What is the publication acceptance rate for abstract presented at SOMOS meetings? (2) What is the distribution by orthopaedic subspecialty for SOMOS presentations accepted for publication? (3) What is the overall quality of these publications? Abstracts of podium presentations at SOMOS were reviewed from 2009 to 2013. Author institutional information was obtained. Abstracts were then queried in PubMed to obtain publication status, time to publication, and impact factor of the journal in which the manuscript was successfully published. From 2009 to 2013, 592 abstracts were presented at the SOMOS conference. Overall, 59% of abstracts went on to publication at a mean of 18.1 months. Published manuscripts appeared in 59 journals with a mean impact factor of 2.6. The subspecialties of spine (67%) and basic science (66%) achieved the highest abstract publication rate while sports had the highest mean impact factor (3.3). The annual SOMOS meeting is a productive academic event, producing quality presentations resulting in a high manuscript publication rate in every orthopaedic surgery subspecialty. This is the first series to demonstrate overall productivity of a general orthopaedic surgery scientific meeting as well as the subspecialty-specific impact factors of published investigations.

The annual Pediatric Hospital Medicine (PHM) conference serves as a venue for the dissemination of research in this rapidly growing discipline. A measure of research validity is subsequent publication in peer-reviewed journals. To identify the publication rate of abstracts submitted to the 2014 PHM conference and determine whether presentation format was associated with subsequent journal publication or time to publication. We identified abstracts submitted to the 2014 PHM conference. Presentation formats included rejected abstracts and poster and oral presentations. Abstracts subsequently published in journals were identified by searching the author and abstract title in PubMed, MedEdPORTAL, and Google Scholar. We used logistic regression and Cox proportional hazards models to determine if presentation format was associated with publication, time to publication, and publishing journal impact factor. Of 226 submitted abstracts, 19.0% were rejected, 68.0% were selected for posters, and 12.8% were selected for oral presentations; 36.3% were subsequently published within 30 months after the conference. Abstracts accepted for oral presentation had more than 7-fold greater odds of publication (adjusted odds ratio 7.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.6-23.5) and a 4-fold greater likelihood of publication at each month (adjusted hazard ratio 4.5; 95% CI, 2.1-9.7) compared with rejected abstracts. Median journal impact factor was significantly higher for oral presentations than other presentation formats (P < 0.01). Abstract reviewers may be able to identify methodologically sound studies for presentation; however, the low overall publication rate may indicate that presented results are preliminary or signify a need for increased mentorship and resources for research development in PHM.

Preschool children's use of decontextualized language, or talk about abstract topics beyond the here-and-now, is predictive of their kindergarten readiness and is associated with the frequency of parents' own use of decontextualized language. Does a brief, parent-focused intervention conveying the importance of decontextualized language cause parents to increase their use of these conversations, and as a result, their children's? We examined this question by randomly assigning 36 parents of 4-year-old children into a decontextualized language training condition or a no-treatment control condition and used mixed effects modeling to measure change (from baseline) in parent and child decontextualized language at 4 subsequent home mealtimes during the following month (N = 174 interactions including the baseline). Compared with the control condition, training condition dyads significantly increased their decontextualized talk and maintained these gains for the month following implementation. Furthermore, trained dyads generalized the program content to increase their use of similarly decontextualized, yet untrained conversations. These results demonstrate that an abstract feature of the input is malleable, and introduces a simple, scalable, and replicable approach to increase a feature of child language known to be foundational for children's school readiness. (PsycINFO Database Record

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Revitalization Act of 1993 requires NIH-funded clinical trials to include women and minorities as participants and assess outcomes by sex and race or ethnicity. The objective of this study was to investigate current levels of compliance with these guidelines for inclusion, analysis, and reporting in NIH-funded randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and compare the results with those from 2009 and 2004, which the authors reported previously. The authors identified 782 RCTs published in 14 leading U.S. medical journals in 2015 with a PubMed search. Of those, 142 were the primary report of an NIH-funded RCT, conducted in the United States, and eligible for analysis. The authors reviewed abstract, text, and tables of each eligible study as well as any follow-up published commentary to determine compliance with NIH guidelines. Thirty-five studies limited enrollment to one sex. The median enrollment of women in the remaining 107 studies was 46%, but 16 (15.0%) enrolled less than 30% women. Twenty-eight of the 107 (26%) reported at least one outcome by sex or explicitly included sex as a covariate in statistical analysis. Of the 142 studies, 19 (13.4%) analyzed or reported outcomes by race or ethnicity. There were no statistically significant changes in inclusion, analysis, or reporting by sex, race, or ethnicity compared with the previous studies. NIH policies have not resulted in significant increases in reporting results by sex, race, or ethnicity. The authors recommend strong journal policies to increase compliance with NIH policies.

To extend previous work and estimate health and social care costs, litigation costs, funeral-related costs, and productivity losses associated with stillbirth in the UK. A population-based cost-of-illness study using a synthesis of secondary data. The National Health Service (NHS) and wider society in the UK. Stillbirths occurring within a 12-month period and subsequent events occurring over the following 2 years. Costs were estimated using published data on events, resource use, and unit costs. Mean health and social care costs, litigation costs, funeral-related costs, and productivity costs for 2 years, reported for a single stillbirth and at a national level. Mean health and social care costs per stillbirth were £4191. Additionally, funeral-related costs were £559, and workplace absence (parents and healthcare professionals) was estimated to cost £3829 per stillbirth. For the UK, the annual health and social care costs were estimated at £13.6 million, and total productivity losses amounted to £706.1 million (98% of this cost was attributable to the loss of the life of the baby). The figures for total productivity losses were sensitive to the perspective adopted about the loss of life of the baby. This work expands the current intelligence on the costs of stillbirth beyond the health service to costs for parents and society, and yet these additional findings must still be regarded as conservative estimates of the true economic costs. The costs of stillbirth are significant, affecting the health service, parents, professionals, and society. Why and how was the study carried out? The personal, social, and emotional consequences of stillbirth are profound. Placing a monetary value on such consequences is emotive, yet necessary, when deciding how best to invest limited healthcare resources. We estimated the average costs associated with a single stillbirth and the costs for all stillbirths occurring in the UK over a 1-year period. What were the main findings? The average cost to the National Health Service (NHS) of care related to the stillbirth and a first subsequent pregnancy was £4191 for each stillbirth. For the UK, this cost was £13.6 million annually. Clinical negligence payments to bereaved parents were estimated at £2.5 million per year. Parents were estimated to spend £1.8 million per year on funerals. The cost of workplace absence as parents cope with the effects of grief was estimated at £2476 per stillbirth. For the UK, this cost was £8.1 million annually. The loss of a baby is also the loss of an individual with the potential to become a valued and productive member of society. The expected value of an adult's lifetime working hours was taken as an estimate of this productivity loss, and was £213,304 for each stillbirth. The annual cost for all stillbirths was £694 million. We know from parents that the birth of a subsequent child in no way replaces a stillborn baby. We found that 52% of women fall pregnant within 12 months of a stillbirth. From a purely economic perspective concerned only with the number of individuals in society, babies born during this period could potentially replace the productivity losses of the stillborn baby. Adopting this approach, which we understand is controversial and difficult for bereaved parents, the expected productivity losses would be lower, at £333 million. What are the limitations of the work? For some categories, existing data were unavailable and we used clinical opinion to estimate costs. Furthermore, we were unable to quantify some indirect consequences, for example the psychological distress experienced by wider family members. What is the implication for parents? Placing a monetary value on what is for parents a profound personal tragedy may seem unkind. It is, however, unavoidable if we are to provide policy makers with vital information on the wide-ranging consequences that could be prevented through future investments in initiatives to reduce stillbirth.

To assess the current prevalence of and risk factors for infertility among couples of reproductive age in China. Population-based cross-sectional study. We approached 25 270 couples in eight provinces/municipalities, of whom 18 571 (response rate 74%) were interviewed. Couples living together and married for more than 1 year, of whom the female spouse was 20-49 years old. Women were approached via telephone and face-to-face conversation to complete the standardised and structured questionnaire by trained interviewers. Prevalence of and risk factors for infertility. Among women 'at risk' of pregnancy, the prevalence of infertility was 15.5% (2680/17 275). Among 10 742 women attempting to become pregnant, the prevalence of infertility was 25.0% (2680/10 742), which increased with age in the second population. Among women who failed to achieve pregnancy in the last 12 months, 3470 finished our questionnaire about fertility care, and 55.2% (1915/3470) of them had sought medical help. Sociodemographic risk factors for infertility included lower educational level [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 3.4, 95% CI 2.0-5.5] and employment (aOR 2.3, 95% CI 1.9-2.9). Clinical risk factors were irregular menstrual cycle (aOR 1.8, 95% CI 1.2-2.5), light menstrual blood volume (aOR 1.6, 95% CI 1.2-2.0), history of cervicitis (aOR 1.5, 95% CI 1.2-2.0) and endometriosis (aOR 3.1, 95% CI 1.1-9.3), previous stillbirth (aOR 2.1, 95% CI 1.3-3.3) and miscarriage (aOR 2.7, 95% CI 2.1-3.5). In addition, history of operation was a significant risk factor of infertility. Among couples of reproductive age in China, the prevalence of infertility was 25%, and almost half of the couples experiencing infertility had not sought medical help. In China, 25% of couples actively attempting to become pregnant suffered infertility.

INFARMED, the Portuguese national health authority, alerts the general public and health care professionals about quality or safety issues detected in health products. The present study analyses recalls of substandard medicines in Portugal between 2005 and 2015. All 338 alerts for medicine recalls were analysed, which represents a total of 378 drugs withdrawn. Despite the fact that the total number of medicine alerts has increased during the past decade, the number of actual medicine recalls remained relatively constant. The number of batches affected in each recall varies from only one to several batches. In addition, 294 of the alerts are related to voluntary recalls, that is, those initiated by the marketing authorisation holder, whereas only 40 were mandatory recalls. There are marketing authorisation holders that have had several medicine recalls over the period studied. The main cause of product recall was the pharmaceutical dosage form, followed by packaging problems. Forty-two percent of the withdrawn medicines are from solid oral forms, a value slightly higher than that obtained for the injectables group. Finally, substandard medicines have been accessible in the Portuguese market for a period that varied between one month and over four years. The data seem to show that the number of substandard medicines in Portugal has not been increasing. However, this may be due to a variety of causes, that is, better performance of the industry, non-detection of these cases, and so on.

Studies on cancer survival have revealed disparities not only between the elderly and their younger counterparts, but also among the elderly themselves. The aim of this work was to identify sociodemographic, socioeconomic, clinical, and care-related determinants of survival or mortality in older patients with cancer by a systematic synthesis of the literature. Understanding these factors is of great value for guiding health policies and programs aimed at reducing cancer survival disparities. We conducted a search of MEDLINE and SCOPUS databases under PRISMA guidelines. Results were limited to articles published in English and French from 2005 to 2015, and focused on elderly patients with cancer. The article selection was performed in a stepwise fashion: title, abstract, and full-text selection. Studied determinants and results of each article were synthesized. Forty-five articles were eligible and included in the study. We observed different ways of measuring socioeconomic status, comorbidities, and treatment among studies. Cancer-specific and overall survival were the main studied outcomes. Advanced age, low income, low socioeconomic status, presence of comorbidities, advanced stage, and poor tumor grade were found to be associated with lower survival or higher mortality. On the other hand, female gender and being married were predictive of increased survival or lower mortality. The next logical step is to carry out studies on elderly patients from different countries and to incorporate pertinent factors in a unique model. Moreover, specific geriatric health impairments should be taken into account in further research because of their association with survival.

Research in the health sciences has been highly successful in revealing the aetiologies of many morbidities, particularly those involving the microbiology of communicable disease. This success has helped form a narrative to be found in numerous public health documents, about interventions to reduce the burden of non-communicable diseases (e.g., obesity or alcohol related pathologies). These focus on tackling the purported pathogenic factors causing the diseases as a means of prevention. In this paper, we argue that this approach has been sub-optimal. The mechanisms of aetiology and of prevention are sometimes significantly different and failure to make this distinction has hindered efforts at preventing non-communicable diseases linked to diet, exercise and alcohol consumption. We propose a sociological approach as an alternative based on social practice theory. (A virtual abstract for this paper can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA).

Socioeconomic factors are known to affect outcomes for both medical and surgical conditions. The purpose of this systematic review was to assess the current evidence regarding the effect of socioeconomic factors such as income, geographic location, educational level, and occupation on clinical outcomes after distal radius fractures. A systematic search strategy was performed to identify studies commenting on the effect of socioeconomic factors on clinical outcomes following open or closed distal radius fracture repair. Abstract and full-text screening was performed by 2 independent reviewers, and articles were evaluated by Structured Effectiveness Quality Evaluation Scale (SEQES). Treatment outcomes of interest included, but were not limited to, pain, function, range of motion, and grip strength. There were 1745 studies that met our inclusion and exclusion criteria for abstract screening. Of these, 48 studies met our inclusion criteria for full-text screening and 20 studies met our criteria for quality analysis with the SEQES score. There were 3 studies of high quality, 16 of moderate quality, and 1 of low quality. Meta-analyses were not possible due to the variability in outcomes of interest across papers. Patient factors indicative of socioeconomic status are relevant predictors of functional outcome after distal radius fractures. There is currently limited evidence in this area of research, and further examination should be considered to improve outcomes from a patient and system standpoint.

Child maltreatment is associated with an increased likelihood of having mood disorders, anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, substance use disorders, and personality disorders, but far less is known about eating disorders. The objective of the current study was to examine the associations between child maltreatment, including harsh physical punishment, physical abuse, sexual abuse, emotional abuse, emotional neglect, physical neglect, and exposure to intimate partner violence, and eating disorders in adulthood among men and women. Data were from the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions wave 3 (NESARC-III) collected in 2012-2013. The sample was nationally representative of the United States adult population (N = 36,309). Lifetime eating disorders (anorexia nervosa [AN], bulimia nervosa [BN], and binge-eating disorder [BED]) were assessed using diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, fifth edition (DSM-5) criteria and the alcohol use disorder and associated disabilities interview schedule-5 (AUDADIS-5). The prevalence of any lifetime eating disorder was 1.7% (0.8% among men and 2.7% among women). All child maltreatment types were associated with AN, BN, and BED with notable differences among men and women. Overall, the types of child maltreatment with the strongest relationships with any eating disorder were sexual abuse and physical neglect among men and sexual abuse and emotional abuse among women. Clinicians should be mindful that child maltreatment experiences are associated with increased odds of eating disorders including AN, BED, and BN. Such relationships are significant among men and women although notable gender differences in these relationships exist. Abstract word count = 248.

This study investigated the relationship between quality of life (QoL) and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and assessed factors other than health that contribute to differences in QoL in young males with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). In this cross-sectional study, QoL and HRQoL measures were completed by 98 parents and 85 children. The Quality of My Life (QoML) questionnaire measured QoL and HRQoL as single-items, and the Pediatric Quality of Life 4.0 Generic Core (PedsQL) questionnaire was used as a multidimensional measure of HRQoL. Simple regression was used to examine the relationship between single-item measures of HRQoL and QoL. Multivariable regression was used to investigate factors that may contribute to difference in QoL and HRQoL. While ratings of QoL and HRQoL were significantly correlated with one another, HRQoL only accounted for 21% and 44% of the variability in QoL by child- and parent-reports respectively. None of the factors measured contributed ratings of the child's QoL to be much higher than HRQoL. QoL and HRQoL are related but distinct constructs as rated by children with DMD and their parents. Further research is needed to elucidate factors outside HRQoL that contribute to QoL. Quality of life (QoL) and health-related quality of life are distinct concepts rated by young males with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and their parents. Factors outside of 'health' contribute to overall QoL in the paediatric population with DMD. This article's abstract has been translated into Spanish and Portuguese. Follow the links from the abstract to view the translations.

To evaluate the long-term risk of further gynaecological surgery and cancer in women with endometriosis. Cohort study. Scotland. 281 937 women with nearly 5 million person years (4 923 628) of follow up from 1981 to 2010. In this national population-based study we compared 17 834 women with a new surgical diagnosis of endometriosis with 83 303 women with no evidence of endometriosis at laparoscopy, 162 966 women who underwent laparoscopic sterilisation, and 17 834 age-matched women from the general population. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to calculate crude and adjusted hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals. Risk of further gynaecological surgery, number and type of repeat surgery and time to repeat surgery from the diagnosis of endometriosis. Cancer outcomes included subsequent risk of all cancer, gynaecological and non-gynaecological cancers. Women with endometriosis had a significantly higher risk of further surgery when compared with women with no evidence of endometriosis at laparoscopy [hazard ratio (HR) 1.69, 95% (confidence interval) CI 1.65-1.73], women who had undergone laparoscopic sterilisation (HR 3.30, 95% CI 3.23-3.37) and age-matched women from the general population (HR 5.95, 95% CI 5.71-6.20). They also have an increased risk of ovarian cancer when compared with general population counterparts (HR 1.77, 95% CI 1.08-2.89) or those with laparoscopic sterilisation (HR 1.75, 95% CI 1.2-2.45). Women with surgically diagnosed endometriosis face an increased risk of multiple surgery. They have a higher chance of developing ovarian cancer in comparison with the general population and women with laparoscopic sterilisation. Women with endometriosis face an increased risk of recurrent surgery and developing ovarian cancer.

Speaking engagements, serving as session chairs, and receiving awards at national meetings are essential stepping stones towards professional success for scientific researchers. Studies of gender parity in meetings of national scientific societies repeatedly uncover bias in speaker selection, engendering underrepresentation of women among featured presenters. To continue this dialogue, we analyzed membership data and annual conference programs of a large scientific society (>7000 members annually) in a male-rich (~70% males), technology-oriented STEM subfield. We detected a pronounced skew towards males among invited keynote lecturers, plenary speakers, and recipients of the society's Senior Investigator award (15%, 13%, and 8% females, respectively). However, the proportion of females among Mid-Career and Young Investigator award recipients and oral session chairs resembled the current gender distribution of the general membership. Female members were more likely to present at the conferences and equally likely to apply and be accepted for oral presentations as their male counterparts. The gender of a session chair had no effect on the gender distribution of selected applicants. Interestingly, we identified several research subareas that were naturally enriched (i.e., not influenced by unequal selection of presenters) for either female or male participants, illustrating within a single subfield the gender divide along biology-technology line typical of all STEM disciplines. Two female-enriched topics experienced a rapid growth in popularity within the examined period, more than doubling the number of associated researchers. Collectively, these findings contribute to the contemporary discourse on gender in science and hopefully will propel positive changes within this and other societies. Graphical abstract ᅟ.

The aim of this systematic review was to examine the associations of individual-level as well as area-level socio-economic status and area-level deprivation with glycaemic control, hypoglycaemia and diabetic ketoacidosis in people with Type 1 diabetes mellitus. Ovid MEDLINE was searched to identify relevant cohort, case-control or cross-sectional studies published between January 2000 and June 2015. Search results were screened by title, abstract and keywords to identify eligible publications. Decisions on inclusion or exclusion of full texts were made independently by two reviewers. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used to estimate the methodological quality of included studies. Quality assessment and extracted data of included studies were synthesized narratively and reported according to the PRISMA statement. Literature search in Ovid MEDLINE identified 1345 eligible studies. Twenty studies matched our inclusion and exclusion criteria. Two articles were additionally identified through hand search. According to the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale, most of the studies were of average quality. Results on associations of socio-economic status and area-level deprivation with glycaemic control and hypoglycaemia were contradictory between studies. By contrast, lower socio-economic status and higher area-level deprivation were associated with a higher risk for diabetic ketoacidosis in all except one study. Lower socio-economic status and higher area-level deprivation are associated with a higher risk of experiencing diabetic ketoacidosis in people with Type 1 diabetes mellitus. Access to care for socially deprived people needs to be expanded to overcome impairing effects on the course of the condition and to reduce healthcare disparities.

Despite caring for patients near the end-of-life (EOL), surgeons and anesthesiologists report low confidence in their ability to facilitate EOL conversations. This discrepancy exists despite competency requirements and professional medical society recommendations. The objective of this systematic review is to identify articles describing EOL communication training available to surgeons and anesthesiologists, and to assess their methodological rigor to inform future curricular design and evaluation. This PRISMA-concordant systematic review identified English-language articles from PubMed, EMBASE, and manual review. Eligible articles included viewpoint pieces, and observational, qualitative, or case studies that featured an educational intervention for surgeons or anesthesiologists on EOL communication skills. Data on the study objective, setting, design, participants, intervention, and results were extracted and analyzed. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used to assess methodological quality. Database and manual search returned 2710 articles. A total of 2268 studies were screened by title and abstract, 46 reviewed in full-text, and 16 included in the final analysis. Fifteen studies were conducted exclusively in academic hospitals. Two studies included attending surgeons as participants; all others featured residents, fellows, or a mix thereof. Fifteen studies used simulated role-playing to teach and assess EOL communication skills. Measured outcomes included knowledge, attitudes, confidence, self-rated or observer-rated communication skills, and curriculum feedback; significance of results varied widely. Most studies lacked adequate methodological quality and appropriate control groups to be confident about the significance and applicability of their results. There are few quality studies evaluating EOL communication training for surgeons and anesthesiologists. These programs frequently use role-playing to teach and assess EOL communication skills. More studies are needed to evaluate the effect of these interventions on patient outcomes. However, evaluating the effectiveness of these initiatives poses methodological challenges.

To determine the impact that intersectoral policies and social participation, implemented worldwide, have had on the modification of the social determinants for health and on the reduction of social health inequities. A scoping review of the literature published in the period 2005-2015 was performed. The literature search was conducted on PubMed and Scielo databases. Two researchers reviewed each document. Data were analysed according to the intersectoral action and social participation variables and according to the theoretical frameworks of the Social Determinants Model of the Commission on Social Determinants of Health (CSDH) and the theoretical constructs of Social Capital (SC) and Life Course (LC). Out of 45 documents likely to be selected for final review, all of them based on title and abstract, 20 documents were eventually picked out and analysed; most them (n = 8) were conducted in all Latin America and Latin America's countries. Twelve documents reported intersectoral action associated with social participation in partnership with different institutions. Regarding theoretical frameworks, most of studies (n = 8) used CSDH and SC. In relation to health outcomes, the studies showed mainly: increased access to health and education, follow-up of pregnant women, increasing in prenatal examinations, reduction in malnutrition/child mortality, reduction in extreme poverty/hunger; reduction in epidemics/tuberculosis, control of alcohol/drug consumption, promotion of health/mental as well as basic sanitation improvements. Intersectoral and social participation experiences studied yielded positive outcomes regarding health status and quality of life in the communities in which such experiences were implemented.

Cities are investing millions in Cure Violence, a public health approach to reduce urban violence by targeting at-risk youth and redirecting conflict to nonviolent responses. The impact of such a program compared with criminal justice responses is unknown because experiments directly comparing criminal justice and public health approaches to violence prevention are infeasible with observational data. We simulated experiments to test the influence of two interventions on violence: (1) Cure Violence and (2) directed police patrol in violence hot spots. We used an agent-based model to simulate a 5% sample of the New York City (NYC) adult population, with agents placed on a grid representing the land area of NYC, with neighborhood size and population density proportional to land area and population density in each community district. Agent behaviors were governed by parameters drawn from city data sources and published estimates. Under no intervention, 3.87% (95% CI, 3.84, 3.90) of agents were victimized per year. Implementing the violence interrupter intervention for 10 years decreased victimization by 13% (to 3.35% [3.32, 3.39]). Implementing hot-spots policing and doubling the police force for 10 years reduced annual victimization by about 11% (to 3.46% [3.42, 3.49]). Increasing the police force by 40% combined with implementing the violence interrupter intervention for 10 years decreased violence by 19% (to 3.13% [3.09, 3.16]). Combined investment in a public health, community-based approach to violence prevention and a criminal justice approach focused on deterrence can achieve more to reduce population-level rates of urban violence than either can in isolation. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B298.

To examine the experiences of women seeking more than one termination of pregnancy (TOP) within 2 years. Mixed methods study. Six TOP services across Scotland. Women presenting for TOP between July and December 2015. Descriptive and inferential analysis of quantitative survey data, thematic analysis of qualitative interview data and integrative analysis. In quantitative analysis, multinomial logistic regression was used to compare three groups: previous TOP within 2 years, previous TOP beyond 2 years and no previous TOP. Characteristics and experiences of women seeking TOP. Of 1662 questionnaire respondents, 14.6% (n = 242) and 19.8% (n = 329) reported previous TOP within and beyond 2 years, respectively. The previous TOP within 2 years group was significantly less likely to own their accommodation than the no previous TOP group (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.34, 95% CI: 0.18-0.62) and previous TOP beyond 2 years group (aOR: 0.44, 95% CI: 0.23-0.85); and more likely to report inconsistent (aOR: 1.63, 95% CI: 1.04-2.57; aOR: 1.95, 95% CI: 1.16-3.28) and consistent (aOR: 2.13, 95% CI: 1.39-3.26; aOR: 1.71, 95% CI: 1.07-2.76) contraceptive use than the no previous TOP and previous TOP within 2 years groups, respectively. Twenty-three women from the previous TOP within 2 years group were interviewed. Qualitative and integrative analyses highlight issues relating to contraceptive challenges, intimate partner violence, life aspirations and socio-economic disadvantage. Women undergoing more than one TOP within 2 years may experience particular challenges and vulnerabilities. Service provision should recognise this and move away from stigmatising discourses of 'repeat abortion'. Scottish Government. Women having two or more terminations of pregnancy in 2 years may face key challenges/vulnerabilities including intimate partner violence and socio-economic disadvantage.

This Special Issue examines ethical challenges in community psychology research and practice. The literature on ethics in community psychology has remained largely abstract and aspirational, with few concrete examples and case studies, so the goal of this Special Issue was to expand our written discourse about ethical dilemmas in our field. In these articles, researchers and practitioners share stories of specific ethical challenges they faced and how they sought to resolve them. These first-person narratives examine how ethical challenges come about, how community psychology values inform ethical decision making, and how lessons learned from these experiences can inform an ethical framework for community psychology.

Limited evidence exists to support the withholding of feeds during packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusion to reduce the incidence of transfusion-associated necrotizing enterocolitis (TANEC) in preterm infants. The aim of the manuscript was to systematically review studies reporting the effect of implementing a policy of withholding feeds on the incidence of TANEC in preterm infants. The following databases were searched for relevant studies published between the databases' inception and December 2016: PubMed, Embase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, the Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Pediatric Academic Societies Abstract Archive. Other relevant sources were also searched. There were no restrictions on study design. Studies reporting on the incidence of TANEC (stage ≥2 necrotizing enterocolitis within 48-72 h) after implementation of a policy of withholding feeds in the peritransfusion period in preterm infants were included. This meta-analysis used a random-effects model with assessment of quality of evidence using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system. There were no randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Pooled results from 7 non-RCTs (

The Global Early Adolescent Study (GEAS) was launched in 2014 with the primary goal of understanding the factors in early adolescence that predispose young people to subsequent sexual risks, and conversely, those that promote healthy sexuality across different cultural contexts. The present article describes the methodology that was used for the first phase of GEAS, which consisted of conducting qualitative research to understand the gendered transitions into adolescence and the role that gender norms play within the key relationships of adolescents. Researchers from each of the sites that had completed data collection were also elicited for their feedback on the key strengths, challenges, and lessons learned from conducting research among 11- to 14-year-old adolescents. The purpose of this article is to present the description of each of the methods that were used in GEAS, as well as the researchers' perspectives of using the methods among early adolescents in their sites. The GEAS is being implemented through a collaboration of university and nongovernmental institutions from 15 cities: Assiut (Egypt) Baltimore (U.S.), Blantyre (Malawi), Cape Town (South Africa), Cochabomba (Bolivia), Cuenca (Ecuador), Edinburgh (Scotland), Ghent (Belgium), Hanoi (Vietnam), Ile-Ife (Nigeria), Kinshasa (DRC), Nairobi (Kenya), New Delhi (India), Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso), and Shanghai (China). Approximately 30 in-depth interviews among adolescents and 30 in-depth interviews with their parent/guardian were conducted at each site, with adults and adolescents interviewed separately. To build trust and increase engagement among the adolescent participants, we used two different visual research methods: (1) timeline exercise which was small group based and (2) the Venn diagram exercise which was conducted individually and used at the start of the in-depth interview. The visual aspects of both the timeline and the Venn diagrams not only helped to produce data for the purposes of the study, but also were a successful way of engaging the adolescent participants across sites. While the narrative interviews produced extremely rich data, researchers did notice that there were a few challenges among the younger adolescents. Challenges were related to the length of the interview, comprehension of questions, as some of the questions were either too abstract or asked adolescents about an experience they had not yet had and therefore could not address or articulate. Conducting the first phase of GEAS revealed important insights for research with participants who are in this developmental phase of early adolescence. Methods that involve greater engagement and those that are visual were shown to work well irrespective of the cultural setting.

We sought to understand the main ethical considerations when conducting clinical trials in the prehospital ambulance based setting. A systematic review of the literature on randomised controlled trials in ambulance settings was undertaken. A search of eight databases identified published studies involving recruitment of ambulance service users. Four independent authors undertook abstract and full-text reviews to determine eligibility and extract relevant data. The data extraction concentrated on ethical considerations, with any discussion of ethics being included for further analysis. The resultant data were combined to form a narrative synthesis. In all, 56 papers were identified as meeting the inclusion criteria. Issues relating to consent were the most significant theme identified. Type of consent differed depending on the condition or intervention being studied. The country in which the research took place did not appear to influence the type of consent, apart from the USA where exception from consent appeared to be most commonly used. A wide range of terms were used to describe consent. Consent was the main ethical consideration in published ambulance based research. A range of consent models were used ranging from informed consent to exception from consent (waiver of consent). Many studies cited international guidelines as informing their choice of consent model but diverse and sometimes confused terms were used to describe these models. This suggests that standardisation of consent models and the terminology used to describe them is warranted.

Pretense is a naturally occurring, apparently universal activity for typically developing children. Yet its function and effects remain unclear. One theorized possibility is that pretense activities, such as dramatic pretend play games, are a possible causal path to improve children's emotional development. Social and emotional skills, particularly emotional control, are critically important for social development, as well as academic performance and later life success. However, the study of such approaches has been criticized for potential bias and lack of rigor, precluding the ability to make strong causal claims. We conducted a randomized, component control (dismantling) trial of dramatic pretend play games with a low-SES group of 4-year-old children (N = 97) to test whether such practice yields generalized improvements in multiple social and emotional outcomes. We found specific effects of dramatic play games only on emotional self-control. Results suggest that dramatic pretend play games involving physicalizing emotional states and traits, pretending to be animals and human characters, and engaging in pretend scenarios in a small group may improve children's emotional control. These findings have implications for the function of pretense and design of interventions to improve emotional control in typical and atypical populations. Further, they provide support for the unique role of dramatic pretend play games for young children, particularly those from low-income backgrounds. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/2GVNcWKRHPk.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Coping with parental mental illness in families can be challenging for both children and parents. Providing evidence-based family interventions to families where a parent has a mental illness can enhance the relationships in the family. Although psychiatric research has shown that evidence-based family interventions may improve the communication and understanding of parental mental illness, there is a lack in this area of research from an everyday clinical context. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Our study reinforces the fact that parents with mental illnesses are searching for support from psychiatric services in order to talk to their children about their illness. The finding that under-age children comply when they are told by their parents to join an intervention in psychiatric services supporting the family is something not observed earlier in research. This study once more illuminates the fact that partners of a person with parental mental illness are seldom, in an obvious way, included in family support interventions. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Psychiatric services, and especially mental health nurses, have an important task in providing families with parental mental illness with support concerning communication with their children and in including the "healthy" partner in family support interventions. Introduction Although research has shown that evidence-based family interventions in research settings improve the communication and understanding of parental mental illness, there is a lack of knowledge about interventions in an everyday clinical context. Aim This study explores how families with parental mental illness experience family interventions in a natural clinical context in psychiatric services. Method Five families with children aged 10-12 were recruited from psychiatric services in southern Sweden and interviewed in a manner inspired by naturalistic inquiry and content analysis. Both family and individual interviews were performed. Results In striving to lead an ordinary life while coping with the parental mental illness, these families sought the support of the psychiatric services, especially in order to inform their children about the mental illness. Despite different family interventions, the family members felt supported and reported that the number of conflicts in the family had decreased. The parents were appreciative of help with child-rearing questions, and the children experienced a calmer family atmosphere. However, the partner of the person with mental illness experienced being left without support. Implications for practice Our study shows that psychiatric services, and especially mental health nurses, are in a position to more regularly offer family interventions in supporting the children and the healthy partners.

Adherence to care processes and surgical outcomes varies by population subgroups for the same procedure. Enhanced recovery after surgery pathways are intended to standardize care, but their effect on process adherence and outcomes for population subgroups is unknown. This study aims to demonstrate the association between recovery pathway implementation, process measures, and short-term surgical outcomes by population subgroup. This study is a pre- and post-quality improvement implementation cohort study. This study was conducted at a tertiary academic medical center. A modified colorectal enhanced recovery after surgery pathway was implemented. Patients were included who had elective colon and rectal resections before (2013) and following (2014-2016) recovery pathway implementation. Thirty-day outcomes by race and socioeconomic status were analyzed using a difference-in-difference approach with correlation to process adherence. We identified 639 cases (199 preimplementation, 440 postimplementation). In these cases, 75.2% of the patients were white, and 91.7% had a high socioeconomic status. Groups were similar in terms of other preoperative characteristics. Following pathway implementation, median lengths of stay improved in all subgroups (-1.0 days overall, p ≤ 0.001), but with no statistical difference by race or socioeconomic status (p = 0.89 and p = 0.29). Complication rates in both racial and socioeconomic groups were no different (26.4% vs 28.8%, p = 0.73; 27.3% vs 25.0%, p = 0.86) and remained unchanged with implementation (p = 0.93, p = 0.84). By race, overall adherence was 31.7% in white patients and 26.5% in nonwhite patients (p = 0.32). Although stratification by socioeconomic status demonstrated decreased overall adherence in the low-status group (31.8% vs 17.1%, p = 0.05), white patients were more likely to have regional pain therapy (57.1% vs 44.1%, p = 0.02) with a similar trend seen with socioeconomic status. Data were collected primarily for quality improvement purposes. Differences in outcomes by race and socioeconomic status did not arise following implementation of an enhanced recovery pathway. Differences in process measures by population subgroups highlight differences in care that require further investigation. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A386.

No abstract available.

I argue that the metaphysical capacity of autonomy is not intrinsically valuable; it is valuable only when used in relation to a community's values and instrumentally for making the proper choices that will promote one's own and the community's well-being. I use the example of the choice to take one's life by suicide to illuminate this view. I articulate a plausible African conception of personhood as a basis for the idea of relational autonomy. I argue that this conception is better understood as a social-moral thesis, and not a metaphysical thesis. A metaphysical thesis gives an account of the abstract nature of an atomic individual, his agency, and rational choice. The social-moral thesis indicates that personhood and autonomy are positive and relational to the life plans, well-being, material conditions, and the best means for achieving them that are made available and possible by harmonious living in a community. This idea of autonomy is not just having the capacity of freewill; it also involves how such freewill is used, in terms of how an individual's choices are guided by internalized communal values.

Changes in social preference of amphibian larvae result from sustained exposure to kinship odorants. To understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms of this neuroplasticity, we investigated the effects of olfactory system activation on neurotransmitter (NT) expression in accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) interneurons during development. We show that protracted exposure to kin or non-kin odorants changes the number of dopamine (DA)- or gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)-expressing neurons, with corresponding changes in attraction/aversion behavior. Changing the relative number of dopaminergic and GABAergic AOB interneurons or locally introducing DA or GABA receptor antagonists alters kinship preference. We then isolate AOB microRNAs (miRs) differentially regulated across these conditions. Inhibition of miR-375 and miR-200b reveals that they target Pax6 and Bcl11b to regulate the dopaminergic and GABAergic phenotypes. The results illuminate the role of NT switching governing experience-dependent social preference. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

To examine whether disparities in stillbirth, and neonatal and perinatal mortality rates, between public and private hospitals are the result of differences in population characteristics and/or clinical practices. Retrospective cohort study. A metropolitan tertiary centre encompassing public and private hospitals. Women accessed care from either a private obstetrician or from public models of care - predominantly midwife-led care or care shared between midwives, general practitioners, and obstetricians. A total of 131 436 births during 1998-2013: 69 037 public and 62 399 private. Propensity score matching was used to select equal-sized public and private cohorts with similar characteristics. Logistic regression analysis was then used to explore the impact of public-private differences in the use of assisted reproductive technologies, plurality, major congenital anomalies, birth method, and gestational age. Stillbirth, and neonatal and perinatal mortality rates. After controlling for maternal and pregnancy factors, perinatal mortality rates were higher in the public than in the private cohort (adjusted odds ratio, aOR 1.53; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI 1.29-1.80; stillbirth aOR 1.56, 95% CI 1.26-1.94; neonatal death aOR 1.48, 95% CI 1.15-1.89). These disparities reduced by 15.7, 20.5, and 19.6%, respectively, after adjusting for major congenital anomalies, birth method, and gestational age. Perinatal mortality occurred more often among public than private births, and this disparity was not explained by population differences. Differences in clinical practices seem to be partly responsible. The impact of differences in clinical practices on maternal and neonatal morbidity was not examined. Further research is required. Private obstetrician-led care: more obstetric intervention and earlier births reduce perinatal mortality. Background Babies born in Australian public hospitals tend to die more often than those born in private hospitals. Our aim was to determine whether this pattern is a result of public-private differences in care or merely linked with differences in the characteristics of the two groups. In Australian private hospitals, a private obstetrician almost always provides continuing care to each woman during pregnancy and birth. Public hospitals provide a number of care options, which usually involve midwives and/or a family doctor. Method The study population included 131 436 births (52.5% public; 47.5% private) from 1998-2013 at a single metropolitan centre with co-located public and private facilities. To isolate the effect of differences in care, we used a statistical technique called propensity score matching to select a public group and a private group with similar characteristics and equal size. This enabled us to compare 'apples with apples' when comparing public versus private perinatal death rates. Perinatal deaths include stillbirths and babies that die within 28 days of birth. Main findings After matching and after accounting for different patterns in the use of fertility treatments and multiple-birth pregnancies (such as twins), babies born in the public sector were approximately 1.5 times more likely to die than babies born in the private sector. This difference was reduced to 1.3 times more likely to die than babies born in the private sector after taking into account other factors that could skew the data, such as major congenital anomalies, birth method, and duration of pregnancy. Limitations This was a single-centre study, so the results may not apply to all settings. Despite our efforts to create highly similar public and private cohorts, some differences between the groups are likely to have remained and this may have affected the results. Implications Our findings suggest that private obstetrician-led care has a beneficial impact on perinatal deaths, despite, or possibly because of, higher obstetric intervention rates and earlier births in the private hospital. Further research is required.

Global insecurity and climate change are exacerbating the need for improved management of refugee resettlement services. International standards hold states responsible for the protection of the right of non-citizens to an adequate standard of physical and mental health while recognising the importance of social determinants of health. However, programmes to protect refugees' right to health often lack coordination and monitoring. This paper describes the protocol for a scoping review to explore barriers and facilitators to the integration of health services for refugees; the content, process and actors involved in protecting refugee health; and the extent to which intersectoral approaches are leveraged to protect refugees' right to health on resettlement, especially for vulnerable groups such as women and children. Peer-reviewed (through four databases including MEDLINE, Web of Science, Global Health and PsycINFO) and grey literature were searched to identify programmes and interventions designed to promote refugee health in receiving countries. Two reviewers will screen articles and abstract data. Two frameworks for integration and intersectoral action will be applied to understand how and why certain approaches work while others do not and to identify the actors involved in achieving success at different levels of integration as defined by these frameworks. Findings from the scoping review will be shared in relevant conferences and meetings. A brief will be created with lessons learnt from successful programmes to inform decision making in design of refugee programmes and services. Ethical approval is not required as human subjects are not involved. Registered on Open Science Framework at https://osf.io/gt9ck/.

To characterize recent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technical development and innovation based on data regarding MRI-related patents awarded in 2016. The US Patent and Trademark Office website was searched for patents awarded in 2016 and an abstract containing "magnetic resonance." Patent characteristics were summarized. An MRI physicist classified patents' themes. A total of 423 MRI-related patents were awarded in 2016. Among these, 29% had 1 inventor, 24% had 2 inventors, and 47% had ≥2 inventors. Mean interval between patents being filed and awarded was 1389 ± 559days (range: 167-4029). Most common countries of patents' first assignee were USA (40%), Germany (24%), Netherlands (10%), and Japan (10%). In all, 3% included assignees with different countries (most common collaborators USA and Germany). Patents' first assignee had an industry affiliation in 76% vs an academic affiliation in 21% (4% indeterminate); and 3% had industry-academia collaboration. Patents' most common themes were coils (n = 77), sequence design (n = 65), and noncoil scanner hardware (n = 41). These top themes were similar for USA, international, and industry-based patents; however, for academic-based patents, the most common themes were sequence design, reconstruction, and exogenous agents. Less common themes included image analysis, postprocessing, spectroscopy, relaxometry, diffusion, motion correction, radiation therapy, implants, wireless devices, and positron emission tomography-MRI. Most MRI-related patents were by non-US inventors. A large majority had industry affiliation; minimal industry-academic collaborationwas observed. Patents from industry and academic inventors had distinct top focuses: hardware and software, respectively. Awarenessofthe most recent years' MRI patents may provide insights into forthcoming clinical translations and help guide ongoing research and entrepreneurism.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is a developing body of research on violence in healthcare workplaces. Although psychiatric visiting nurses (PVNs) are an important group of professionals who provide medical services for people with mental disorders live in the community, little is known about the experiences and characteristics of violence exposure among PVNs, or the characteristics and work situations of PVNs related to violence exposure. WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Approximately 40% of participants were exposed to violence during the previous 12 months; approximately 50% had been exposed during their PVN careers in PVN settings. The most frequent violence was verbal abuse. Longer career length as a PVN and greater number of visits per month were both positively associated with verbal abuse during the previous 12 months. Twenty-eight of the 34 participants (83%) who completed the IES-R-J survey had some residual psychological distress, and two (6%) had a potentially high risk of posttraumatic stress disorder. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: In devising policies and strategies against violence, PVN organizations and administrators should consider the characteristics of the violence, especially verbal abuse, as well as the characteristics and work situations of PVNs that are related to verbal abuse. Furthermore, they might provide relevant information on violence in PVN settings within their violence-prevention manuals or education. It would be important to provide support and to construct a safe workplace environment for PVNs who are experiencing residual psychological distress. Introduction Psychiatric visiting nurses (PVNs) play a crucial role by providing medical services for community-living individuals with mental disorders in Japan. However, little is known about violence towards PVNs. Aim This cross-sectional study investigated violence during visits and the resulting psychological effects for PVNs. Methods PVNs were assessed using a violence exposure questionnaire and the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R-J); a measure of posttraumatic distress. Result Thirty-eight (41%) of 94 participants had experienced violence during the previous 12 months and 49 (53%) over their entire career. The most frequent violence was verbal abuse. Career length as a PVN and number of visits per month were significantly positively associated with verbal abuse during the previous 12 months. The IES-R-J scores indicated 28 of the 34 participants who completed the questionnaire exhibited psychological distress for the most traumatic violence during their career and two had a potentially high risk of posttraumatic stress disorder. Discussion and Implications Policies and strategies aimed at reducing violence in PVN settings should be developed according to characteristics of the violence, as well as the characteristics and work situation of PVNs. Furthermore, the provision of support and a safe workplace environment would be important for PVNs with residual psychological distress.

Extensive research has explored the ability of young children to learn about the causal structure of the world from patterns of evidence. These studies, however, have been conducted with middle-class samples from North America and Europe. In the present study, low-income Peruvian 4- and 5-year-olds and adults, low-income U.S. 4- and 5-year-olds in Head Start programs, and middle-class children from the United States participated in a causal learning task (N = 435). Consistent with previous studies, children learned both specific causal relations and more abstract causal principles across culture and socioeconomic status (SES). The Peruvian children and adults generally performed like middle-class U.S. children and adults, but the low-SES U.S. children showed some differences.

Thirty-five years ago, Gillian Rose articulated a significant critique of classical sociological reason, emphasizing its relationship to its philosophical forebears. In a series of works, but most significantly in her Hegel contra Sociology, Rose worked to specify the implications of sociology's failure, both in its critical Marxist and its 'scientific' forms, to move beyond Kant and to fully come to terms with the thought of Hegel. In this article, I unpack and explain the substance of her criticisms, developing the necessary Hegelian philosophical background on which she founded them. I argue that Rose's attempted recuperation of 'speculative reason' for social theory remains little understood, despite its continued relevance to contemporary debates concerning the nature and scope of sociological reason. As an illustration, I employ Rose to critique Chernilo's recent call for a more philosophically sophisticated sociology. From the vantage point of Rose, this particular account of a 'philosophical sociology' remains abstract and rooted in the neo-Kantian contradictions that continue to characterize sociology.

Equity is a core domain of health care quality. This study characterizes equity research in the quality improvement (QI) literature. The data sources were all review articles, methodology articles, original research, and research letters/abstracts published in 5 high-impact QI journals in 2015. Using the Institute of Medicine definition of equity, 2 reviewers assessed the abstracts to identify equity-focused articles. The number of Google Scholar citations and study site were recorded for each abstract. For equity-focused studies, the equity topic was recorded. Of 684 abstracts, 63 (9.2%) investigated equity topics. A weighted average of 7.4% of abstracts examined equity. The most commonly studied equity topics were health care resource scarcity, race/ethnicity, and mental health. Equity-focused articles received equal citations and were more likely to be conducted in low-/middle-income countries when compared with articles unrelated to equity. Few articles published in 5 leading QI journals addressed topics related to equity.

Parents may experience psychological distress when a child is acutely hospitalized, which can negatively affect child outcomes. Interventions designed to support parents' coping have the potential to mitigate this distress. To describe interventions designed to provide coping support to parents of hospitalized children and conduct a meta-analysis of coping support intervention outcomes (parent anxiety, depression, and stress). We searched Pubmed, Embase, PsycINFO, Psychiatry Online, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature from 1985 to 2016 for English-language articles including the concepts "pediatric," "hospitalization," "parents," and "coping support intervention." Two authors reviewed titles and abstracts to identify studies meeting inclusion criteria and reviewed full text if a determination was not possible using the title and abstract. References of studies meeting inclusion criteria were reviewed to identify additional articles for inclusion. Two authors abstracted data and assessed risk of bias by using a structured instrument. Initial searches yielded 3450 abstracts for possible inclusion. Thirty-two studies met criteria for inclusion in the systematic review and 12 studies met criteria for inclusion in the meta-analysis. The most commonly measured outcomes were parent depression, anxiety, and stress symptoms. In meta-analysis, combined intervention effects significantly reduced parent anxiety and stress but not depression. Heterogeneity among included studies was high. Most included studies were conducted at single centers with small sample sizes. Coping support interventions can alleviate parents' psychological distress during children's hospitalization. More evidence is needed to determine if such interventions benefit children.

Mental health of preschool foster care children: How do foster families influence the way children cope with trauma? Abstract. Parents and other significant persons have an important role when preschool children develop or cope with psychological symptoms following traumatic experiences. The underlying mechanisms of the interaction between traumatic experiences and influences of the foster family are still unclear. This study investigates foster parents' stress levels and parenting styles as moderators or mediators in the context of trau- matic experiences. Foster parents of 286 children between three and seven years participated in an online or paper-and-pencil survey. The results suggest a connection between the traumatic experiences of foster children and the stress levels as well as the parenting styles of their foster parents. While verbosity and laxness as parenting styles moderated the impact of traumatic experiences on externalising symptoms, stress levels mediated the impact of traumatic experiences on children's internalising and externalising symptoms. The results underscore the necessity of standardized preparation of and support for foster parents in order to avoid deterioration of psychological symptoms following traumatic events.

We aimed to determine the publication rate for abstracts presented at the International Meeting for Simulation in Healthcare (IMSH) and the time between abstract presentation and publication. We also aimed to describe the study features influencing subsequent publication and the relationship between these features and journal impact factors (IFs). All types of accepted abstracts from the 2012 and 2013 IMSH were reviewed. We extracted the following data from each abstract in duplicate: presentation format, subject, type of scholarship, research method, study design, outcome measure, number of institutions in authorship group, and number of study sites. PubMed and Google Scholar were searched (January 1, 2012 to August 1, 2016) using the names of the first, second, and last author for comparison with abstracts. Journal of publication and IF were recorded. Data were summarized with descriptive statistics. Bivariate and multivariate analysis was performed to explore the association between publication status and other variables. Of 541 abstracts, 22% (119/541) were published with a median time to publication of 16 months (interquartile range = 8.525), ranging from 0 to 43 months. The study characteristics associated with a greater likelihood of publication were the following: research-type abstract, quantitative studies, randomized trials, studies with patient or healthcare-related outcomes, multiple institutions represented in authorship group, and multicenter studies. Studies with multiple institutions in authorship group and multicenter studies were published in higher IF journals (P < 0.05). The publication rate of 22% for abstracts presented at IMSH is low, indicative of the relatively new nature of simulation-based research in healthcare.

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: There are many qualitative studies that explore what it is like for children who live with a parent who has a mental illness. These studies are sometimes criticized because they have small sample sizes which limits their application. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We conducted a systematic review of qualitative papers with an aim to strengthening our understanding of what it is like for children who live with a parent who has a mental illness. We used stringent criteria to make sure that only the voices of children affected by parental mental illness were included in the review. In addition, the paper presents a timely update on previous reviews completed in this area. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The findings of this review highlight the impact that parental mental illness has on children and the important role that mental health nurses can play in maximizing opportunities for building resilience in affected children. Mental health nurses are in a key position to provide timely and age-appropriate information and support to both parents and children to assist in the development of appropriate coping and support mechanisms. Introduction This paper brings together what is known about what it is like for children who live with a parent with a mental illness with a view to strengthening our understanding of their experiences. This paper presents an update on previous reviews that were completed in this area and used a systematic approach and stringent inclusion/exclusion criteria to ensure that the voices of children were central in the included papers. A systematic review of this nature could not be located in the literature. Aims This paper presents the findings of a systematic review which explored the experiences of children who were affected by parental mental illness. Methods CINAHL, PubMed, PsychINFO, Pubmesh and EMBASE were searched for qualitative studies which explored children's experiences, and eight studies were included following review and quality appraisal. Pertinent data were extracted, coded and analysed using a thematic approach. Results Four themes emerged from the analytic process which described the children's understanding of mental illness, their relationship with their parents, their coping strategies and their social connections. Implications for Practice Mental health nurses need to recognize the psychosocial needs of children, and to acknowledge, the wider impact mental illness has of the family.

Young carers often provide care because they have always done so for the people they care about, and because they believe that the care recipient could not manage without them. For many young carers, looking after their own health, combining caring with schoolwork, getting access to training or having time off from carer duties can be a major challenge ( Department of Health [DH], 2008 ). This paper presents evidence from a literature review that builds a substantial body of knowledge to suggest that community nursing teams must develop supportive approaches towards increasing an awareness of young carers' needs. Identification of young carers by community nurses will encourage referral to appropriate services and agencies. The aim of this study was to appraise, for the Queen's Nursing Institute, the published evidence base to explore young carers' needs and how community nurses could support young carers' needs in England. Databases were systematically searched. Title and abstract reviews found 606 potential studies (see Figure 1 ), which were identified around topics corresponding to the headings of three distinct categories: mental health and wellbeing; education needs and resilience; and development of coping strategies. Full-text review resulted in 26 publications that met the study's inclusion criteria. The results of this work show that there is a scarcity of publications around the community nursing needs of young carers. However, studies consistently report young carers are hidden from view and have a significant requirement for support and information. Therefore, effective ways of delivering community nursing support and information to young carers needs to be developed by service providers as a matter of priority, and implemented to give the support that young carers need.

[No Abstract Available].

To understand challenges in care after stillbirth and provide tailored solutions. Multi-centre case study. Three maternity hospitals. Parents with a stillborn baby, maternity staff. Thematic analysis of parent interviews and staff focus groups and service provision investigation. 1 Themes; 2 Triangulation matrix; 3 Recommendations. Twenty-one women, 14 partners, and 22 staff participated. Service Provision: Care for parents after stillbirth varies excessively; there are misconceptions; post-mortem does not delay follow-up. Women 'do not feel right' before stillbirth; their management is haphazard and should be standardised. Stillbirth is an emergency for parents but not always for staff; communication can seem cold; well-designed bereavement space is critical. Birth: Staff shift priorities to mother and future, but for parents their baby is still a baby; parents are not comfortable with staff recommending vaginal birth as the norm; there are several reasons why parents ask for a caesarean; better care involves clear communication, normal behaviour, and discussion of coping strategies. Post-mortem: Parents are influenced by discussions with staff. Staff should 'sow seeds', clarify its respectful nature, delineate its purpose, and explain the timescale. It is not standardised; parents wish to see their multi-professional team. There is unacceptable variation in care after stillbirth, and insensitive interactions between staff and bereaved parents. Understanding parents' needs, including why they ask for caesarean birth, will facilitate joint decision-making. Every bereaved parent is entitled to good, respectful care. Care too varied & interactions often insensitive after stillbirth; national pathway & training urgently needed PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Why and how was the study carried out? Previous studies have shown that improving care after stillbirth is important for families. We investigated the opinions of bereaved parents and maternity staff to find ways to improve care. At three hospitals in 2013, all women who experienced a stillbirth were invited to an interview along with their partners. Thirty-five parents of 21 babies agreed to participate. Twenty-two obstetricians and midwives took part in focus group discussions. What were the main findings? Care was often not as good as it should and could be. Communication with parents was not always as sensitive as they would have liked because staff did not have appropriate training. Some women reported they did not 'feel right' before going to hospital. Once they arrived, there was no standard approach to how care was given. Sometimes there were long delays before the death of the baby was confirmed and action was taken. After it had been confirmed that the baby had died, staff focussed on the mothers' needs, but the parents' priorities were still with their baby. There were several reasons why parents asked for a caesarean birth that staff had not considered. Staff influenced parents' decisions about post-mortem examinations. Parents found it helpful when staff explained the respectful nature and purpose of the examination. After discharge from hospital, there was no consistent plan for how follow-up care would be given. Parents would have liked more information about their next hospital appointment. What are the limitations of the work? The parents interviewed depended on their memories of the details of the care, which happened some time ago. In staff group discussions, junior doctors may not have spoken openly because there were senior doctors present. Further research is necessary to understand and improve care globally. What is the implication for parents? Every bereaved parent is entitled to the best possible care after stillbirth, but some do not get good care. Parents and staff made suggestions that can help to develop processes for how care is given after stillbirth. These suggestions can also inform staff training, so that every single parent is treated respectfully and participates in decision making.

To assess whether parents who were born small for gestational age (below the 10th birthweight centile, SGA) have increased risk of severe or mild placental abruption. To assess whether a history of SGA in other family members modifies this intergenerational effect. Prospective population-based observational study. The Medical Birth Registry of Norway. From 1967 to 2013, 785 333 mother-offspring pairs, 643 066 father-offspring pairs, 272 941 maternal tetrads (i.e. her offspring, sibling, and niece/nephew), and 265 505 paternal tetrads were identified. Cohort study based on linked data from the Medical Birth Registry of Norway. Relative risk (RR) of severe placental abruption (preterm birth, birthweight below the 10th centile, or perinatal death) and mild placental abruption (other cases) in families with SGA. Mothers who were born SGA had increased risk of severe placental abruption (RR 1.5; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI 1.3-1.8), but not mild abruption. The paternal effects were weaker. The combined effect of SGA in the mother and her sibling on severe abruption was twofold (RR 2.4; 95% CI 1.7-3.3) compared with birthweight centiles ≥10 for both. Similarly, the effect of adding an SGA niece/nephew was twofold (RR 2.3; 95% CI 1.3-3.9), whereas the combined effect of SGA in the mother, her sibling and her niece/nephew was fourfold (RR 3.6; 95% CI 1.9-6.8). Women who were born SGA have an increased risk of severe placental abruption. The corresponding paternal effect was modest. A history of SGA in other family members increases the generational effect. Women born small for gestational age have excess risk of placental abruption.

This paper articulates dignity as relational engagement in concrete care situations. Dignity is often understood as an abstract principle that represents inherent worth of all human beings. In actual care practices, this principle has to be substantiated in order to gain meaning and inform care activities. We describe three exemplary substantiations of the principle of dignity in care: as a state or characteristic of a situation; as a way to differentiate between socio-cultural positions; or as personal meaning. We continue our analysis by presenting cases on dignity in care related to us in focus groups with medical professionals. Our empirical ethical lens is in this paper is to analyse, not the meaning of dignity, but the way in which it emerges in practices where it is pursued, within relationships between people, technologies, places, regulations, and the values cherished by or embedded in them. We show that professional caregivers recognize in the dignity of the person they care for their own dignity; giving up on the one implies no less than giving up on the other. This 'mirrored experience' of dignity expresses itself in professional's engagement with the situation. The value of this engagement, we argue, lies not primarily in realizing the particular content of the values at stake. We point to the importance of engagement itself, even if the values engaged with cannot be realized to the full, and even if competing versions of dignity are at stake simultaneously. In this way the caregivers provide us with interesting examples of moral actorship in situations of conflicting values.

Talkers are recognized more accurately if they are speaking the listeners' native language rather than an unfamiliar language. This "language familiarity effect" has been shown not to depend upon comprehension and must instead involve language sound patterns. We further examine the level of sound-pattern processing involved, by comparing talker recognition in foreign languages versus two varieties of English, by (a) English speakers of one variety, (b) English speakers of the other variety, and (c) non-native listeners (more familiar with one of the varieties). All listener groups performed better with native than foreign speech, but no effect of language variety appeared: Native listeners discriminated talkers equally well in each, with the native variety never outdoing the other variety, and non-native listeners discriminated talkers equally poorly in each, irrespective of the variety's familiarity. The results suggest that this talker recognition effect rests not on simple familiarity, but on an abstract level of phonological processing.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Self-confident health professionals with positive and understanding attitudes can take better care of people with suicidal behaviour, but the factors associated with these attitudes are not known. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The majority of nursing professionals had no experience or training in mental health or suicide. They were less self-confident and had more negative attitudes. Nurses and nursing assistants who worked before in mental health services were more understanding with people with suicidal behaviour. Nurses and nursing assistants who were working in prehospital services were less self-confident to taking care of people with suicidal behaviour. Some members of the nursing team had already seriously considered committing suicide. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The practicing, support and training in mental health may improve the nurses' attitudes and emotional competencies. It is important to know why few nurses had suicide-related training, despite the relevance of this issue. Training in mental health or suicide need to include attitudinal and emotional competencies. It is important to offer emotional support to emergency nursing professionals. Background The attitudes towards suicide of emergency nurses may affect the care provided. However, the factors associated with these attitudes remain unclear. Objective To investigate attitudes towards suicidal behaviour and associated factors among nursing professionals working in emergency settings. Methods A cross-sectional observational study including 28 nurses and 118 who were nursing assistants employed at two emergency services in Brazil was conducted. Data were collected in 2015 using a self-administered sociodemographic questionnaire and the Suicide Behavior Attitude Questionnaire (SBAQ). Results The majority of participants reported having no experience or training in mental health or suicide. They reported more negative feelings towards the patient and a lower self-perception of professional competence regarding suicidal behaviours, and these attitudes seemed to reinforce each other. Nurses who worked in mental health services reported less moralistic/judgemental attitudes. Working in prehospital services was associated with having a lower self-perception of professional competence. There were professionals who reported thinking seriously about committing suicide. Conclusion When combined with support and training, practicing mental health nursing may serve as an opportunity to develop favourable attitudes and emotional competences, and these issues need to be addressed in suicide education strategies.

One pervasive facet of human interactions is the tendency to favor ingroups over outgroups. Remarkably, this tendency has been observed even when individuals are assigned to minimal groups based on arbitrary markers. Why is mere categorization into a minimal group sufficient to elicit some degree of ingroup favoritism? We consider several accounts that have been proposed in answer to this question and then test one particular account, which holds that ingroup favoritism reflects in part an abstract and early-emerging sociomoral expectation of ingroup support. In violation-of-expectation experiments with 17-mo-old infants, unfamiliar women were first identified (using novel labels) as belonging to the same group, to different groups, or to unspecified groups. Next, one woman needed instrumental assistance to achieve her goal, and another woman either provided the necessary assistance (help event) or chose not to do so (ignore event). When the two women belonged to the same group, infants looked significantly longer if shown the ignore as opposed to the help event; when the two women belonged to different groups or to unspecified groups, however, infants looked equally at the two events. Together, these results indicate that infants view helping as expected among individuals from the same group, but as optional otherwise. As such, the results demonstrate that from an early age, an abstract expectation of ingroup support contributes to ingroup favoritism in human interactions.

A key metric of the research quality of medical conferences is the publication rate of abstracts. The study objective was to determine the publication rate of abstracts presented at the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons Annual Scientific Congress (RACS ASC) and to examine for any predictive factors associated with publication. Abstracts presented at the RACS ASC from 2011 to 2013 were analysed. Abstract characteristics such as presentation format, study type, study design, study site, cohort size and author origin were recorded. Abstracts published were identified by a PubMed search using a strict algorithm. Univariate and multivariable logistic regressions were used to analyse for predictive factors of publication. Overall, 1438 abstracts were presented and 423 abstracts (29%) were published. The median time to publication was 15.2 months (interquartile range: 8-26) with 110 in Australasian journals (26%). The median number of citations for published abstracts was 6 (interquartile range: 2-16). After multivariable analysis, publication was significantly associated with prospective study design (odds ratio (OR) = 1.34, P = 0.02), multicentre study site (OR = 1.43, P = 0.02), cohort size ≥100 (OR = 2.00, P < 0.001) and New Zealand author origin (OR = 1.50, P = 0.01). Our study demonstrates that less than one-third of abstracts presented at the RACS ASC are subsequently published in a peer-reviewed journal. Factors significantly associated with journal publication include prospective studies, multicentre study, a larger cohort size and New Zealand author origin. Advances in surgery may progress from the preliminary findings of conference abstracts. However only after the rigorous peer review offered by journal publication should changes in decision-making of patient care occur.

Greater numeracy has been correlated with better health and financial outcomes in past studies, but causal effects in adults are unknown. In a 9-week longitudinal study, undergraduate students, all taking a psychology statistics course, were randomly assigned to a control condition or a values-affirmation manipulation intended to improve numeracy. By the final week in the course, the numeracy intervention (statistics-course enrollment combined with values affirmation) enhanced objective numeracy, subjective numeracy, and two decision-related outcomes (financial literacy and health-related behaviors). It also showed positive indirect-only effects on financial outcomes and a series of STEM-related outcomes (course grades, intentions to take more math-intensive courses, later math-intensive courses taken based on academic transcripts). All decision and STEM-related outcome effects were mediated by the changes in objective and/or subjective numeracy and demonstrated similar and robust enhancements. Improvements to abstract numeric reasoning can improve everyday outcomes.

Treatment options for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have rapidly expanded as the treatment paradigm has shifted from controlling symptoms to reducing lifetime inflammatory burden. Families are confronted with the actual and perceived risks of this ever-expanding array of choices. We aim to review the shared decision-making process in pediatric IBD to ensure an optimal therapeutic plan for the child and their family. Mucosal healing is a critical treatment target in pediatric IBD but it may not coincide with clinical symptoms. Evidence-based therapies carry important risks, some of which may be less severe than previously suspected, and a family's understanding of these risks plays a crucial role in how they make health decisions. To form an effective shared therapeutic plan, the physician must incorporate an understanding of the values of both the child and family along with their lived experience of illness. To limit harm and promote health in pediatric IBD, the physician must communicate collaboratively with the child and their family to form mutually understood goals of care - both subjective experiential and objective biological - and appreciate actual and perceived risks of treatment options to effectively educate families and navigate toward the best treatment choices. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Intimate partner violence (IPV) impacts significantly on the lives and health of those who experience abuse The impact of IPV exerts a detrimental impact on mental health as well as physical health, but this is often not recognized by professionals WHAT THE STUDY ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE: This study highlights the impact of IPV on the lives and health of older women from the perspective of older women themselves The approach taken to the study illuminates the ways in which older women describe their experiences within the broader narratives of their experiences This study has explored the particular situation for older women as told through creative expression and their own stories of survivorship. Nurses and other healthcare professionals need to be aware of the enduring impact of IPV for older women, particularly within the context of mental health Those working with older women also need to be alert to the potential barriers to disclosure and disjuncture between professional dialogue and personal narrative ABSTRACT: Introduction Intimate partner violence (IPV) exerts a detrimental impact on the lives and health of all who experience abuse. This includes both physical and mental health and well-being. The experiences of older women however may be different, and these differences may not be recognized or accounted for within existing care provision. Aim To explore the impact of IPV on the lives and health of older women told from the particular perspective of older women themselves as these accounts are largely absence from existing IPV discourse. Method An arts-based research approach with five older women survivors of IPV through the codevelopment and organization of an arts-based workshop. The workshop essentially encompassed four main arts strands and included the creation of clay models and poetry. Findings The findings of the study highlight the significant impact of IPV on the lives, mental health and well-being of older women. This included feelings of social isolation, inability to trust others and a loss of self-identity. Discussion Intimate partner violence is a global issue and as such of relevance for those working in healthcare contexts beyond the UK. While there is a growing body of evidence surrounding IPV and older women, this has largely been presented through researcher-led accounts and as such the narratives of women themselves may not have been adequately acknowledged. Unlike much of the existing evidence, this study has explored the particular situation for older women as told through creative expression and their own stories of survivorship. In this study, the fluidity of the potential materials available in the workshops meant that both the representations through which the women spoke and the primacy of their voices, over those of more traditional researcher accounts, were in evidence throughout. Implications for Practice Mental health nurses and practitioners are often on the front line for care and support for older client populations. IPV across the life span is a global issue for healthcare practitioners. It is anticipated that the findings of this study will provide the mechanism through which mental health nurses and other practitioners may reflect on older women's accounts of IPV as told by older women in this study in their own words. Reframing from dominant professional discourse to personal narrative is central to person-centred approaches and is central to contemporary practice. Ultimately, this has the potential to improve the effectiveness of care provision and support. Relevance to Mental Health Nursing The findings presented in this study have the potential to provide a powerful tool for those working within mental health contexts and healthcare professionals working with older populations more generally to consider both the hidden nature of IPV and the ways in which IPV can significantly impact on mental health and well-being in later life.

HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) are increasingly prevalent despite the use of antiretroviral therapies. Previous research suggests that individual host factors play an important role in determining susceptibility to HAND. In this review, we propose that childhood trauma (CT) and HAND share several common aetiological mechanisms, namely hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysregulation, neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. These convergent and consequent mechanisms may translate into an increased risk of developing HAND in individuals who have experienced early life stress. We provide an overview of basic and clinical research relating to these pathophysiological mechanisms and suggest that further research examine brain-derived neurotrophic factor and telomere length as common mediating factors and potential therapeutic targets for HAND and CT. Graphical abstract Both childhood trauma and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders are associated with HPA axis dysregulation, inflammation and oxidative stress.

To understand the perinatal care experiences of pregnant immigrant women in North America. We searched five electronic databases: MEDLINE, PsycINFO, SocINDEX, CINAHL, and Social Work Abstracts. Two categories of search terms, pregnancy and immigrant, were used to conduct a title/abstract and subject heading search. We manually searched the reference lists of all relevant articles to identify additional articles. Inclusion criteria were qualitative or mixed methods study design, focus on immigrant women's experiences of accessing perinatal care, and data collection in North America. Two reviewers were involved in a three-stage selection process: title/abstract screen, full text review, and data extraction and quality appraisal. Data on authors, date, location, methodology, sample characteristics, data collection, and themes or topics were extracted from 19 articles. We followed the Thomas and Harden (2008) thematic synthesis methodology, which involved a three-stage data analysis approach: free line-by-line coding, organization of free codes into descriptive themes, and construction of analytical themes. We developed three meta-themes from the 19 articles included in our review: Expectations of Pregnancy as Derived From Home, Reality of Pregnancy in the Host Health Care System, and Support. Immigration is a relevant issue in North America, and pregnancy can be an entry point into the health care system for immigrant women. We provide relevant information for health care providers, policy makers, program planners, and researchers about opportunities to explain models of health care delivery, improve communication, and facilitate social support to improve the experiences of immigrant women who interact with the health care system during pregnancy.

Priming with race-typed names and religious concepts have been shown to activate stereotypes and increase prejudice towards out-groups. We examined the effects of name and religious word priming on views of a specific and well-known person, President Barack Obama. We predicted that politically conservative participants primed with President Obama's middle name (Hussein) would rate him more negatively and be more likely to view him as a Muslim than those not shown his middle name. We also examined whether conservatives primed with concrete religious words would rate President Obama more negatively and be more likely to view him as Muslim than those primed with other word types. Furthermore, we predicted that those who mis-identify President Obama as Muslim would rate him more negatively than would those who view him as Christian. The results provided mixed support for these hypotheses. Conservatives primed with President Obama's middle name rated him significantly more negatively than did those in the control condition. This effect was not found for politically liberal or moderate participants. Name priming did not significantly affect views of President Obama's religious affiliation. Although not statistically significant, conservatives primed with abstract religious words tended to rate President Obama more negatively than did those primed with other word types. Religious word priming significantly influenced views of President Obama's religious affiliation; interestingly, participants primed with abstract religious words were more likely to think President Obama is Muslim than were those primed with religious agent or non-religious words. As predicted, participants who thought president Obama was Muslim rated him significantly more negatively than did those who thought he was Christian. Overall, our results provide some evidence that ethnic name and religious word priming can significantly influence opinions, even with a well-known and specific person.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Psychiatric patients have generally negative experiences of being exposed to coercive measures. Existing research has generally not investigated coercion as a process; that is, it does not address issues that arise before, during and after exposure to coercion. A part of existing research within the area does not clarify and define the type of coercive measure(s) investigated. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Patients place great significance on the link between the positive and negative perceived impact of a coercive situation and the professionals' ability and willingness to interact and communicate respectfully. Psychiatric patients associate the use of seclusion, physical restraint/holding, mechanical restraint and forced medication with strong negative perceptions and wish to be treated with respect by professionals, rather than being subjected to the professionals' control. What patients perceive as moderating factors in regard to the use of coercive measures is currently under-researched. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Increased sensitivity to the patient's views of the situation at each point in the coercive process would help professionals to respond to the patients' individual needs. Professionals need to articulate concern and empathy towards patients and to improve communication skills before, during and after a coercive incident. Greater emphasis should be placed on de-escalation and the use of non-coercive strategies or coping skills before the initiation of coercive measures. Introduction There is a lack of research into psychiatric patients' perceptions of coercion that discriminates between different types of coercive measures, while also investigating patients' perceptions of undergoing coercion as a process. This knowledge is required to improve our understanding and provide a foundation for improving clinical practice. Aims To review existing research literature in order to investigate adult psychiatric patients' reported perceptions of situations before, during and after specific and defined types of coercive measures, and to investigate what patients perceive as moderating factors, in regard to the use of these coercive measures. Method A systematic review and thematic analysis of 26 peer-reviewed studies was undertaken. Results The analysis identified six themes and additional subthemes, where "interactions with professionals" and "communication" were predominant themes across the timeline of coercion. Altogether, themes were associated with either "positive or negative patient-perceived impact." Implications for practice Increased sensitivity to patients' views of the situation at each point in the process is desirable in order to respond to the patients' individual needs. Professionals also need to articulate concern and empathy towards the patient and to improve communication skills before, during and after a coercive incident. Use of de-escalation and noncoercive strategies is required. Relevance statement Coercion within psychiatric/mental health care remains controversial, and repeated international calls have recommended a reduction of their use. This review indicates that greater attention to how patients perceive the use of coercive measures (before, during, and after incidents) needs to be considered in order to improve the evidence-based and clinical practice.

To produce a Dutch translation of the Lifestyle Assessment Questionnaire for children with cerebral palsy (LAQ-CP), adapted for cross-cultural differences. The translation process consisted of 6 stages, following a guideline for cross-cultural adaptations including duplicate forward- and back-translations, expert group review, pilot-testing, and a process audit. Several adaptations to the questionnaire were required due to cross-cultural differences. As a result of the pilot-test, the layout was adapted to the desires of the users. The process auditor stated that the process had been comprehensive and valued the quality of the work. The project resulted in a Dutch translation of the LAQ-CP, adapted for cross-cultural differences. Validation of the translated questionnaire is required before use in clinical practice and research is recommended (Dutch abstract, Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at: http://links.lww.com/PPT/A164).

After the first wave of the tsunami of immune checkpoint inhibitors, 2016 was marked by the second wave, revealed by numerous US FDA approvals, publications and abstracts in relation with these drugs in different cancers and settings. First, we reported all new indications of anti-CTLA4, anti-programmed cell death protein 1 and anti-PDL1 approved by the FDA, the positive clinical trials published and the abstracts reported at important scientific meetings during 2016. Then, we highlighted the updates on debatable issues related to checkpoint inhibitors, since the first wave published in a previous issue. We focused on the predictive biomarkers, combination therapies, tumor response patterns and efficacy in particular settings and the side effect management. Finally, the impact of checkpoint inhibitors development on the care management of cancer centers will be discussed.

This study sought to determine whether social factors (neighbourhood education and income) and geographic factors (urban or rural dwelling and local service area) are associated with hysterectomy rates, proportion of hysterectomies performed minimally invasively, and hysterectomy complication and readmission rates in Ontario. The Canadian Institute for Health Information Discharge Abstract Database was used to perform a population-based retrospective cross-sectional study on women who had an abdominal, vaginal, and laparoscopic hysterectomy in 2007 for benign gynaecologic conditions in hospitals in Ontario, Canada. Crude and age-standardized rates of hysterectomy, proportion of hysterectomy performed minimally invasively (vaginal or laparoscopic), and rates of surgical complications were analyzed by neighbourhood educational attainment, neighbourhood income, rural or urban residency, and health service delivery area (Canadian Task Force Classification of Study Design II). A total of 13 511 women who underwent hysterectomy were included. Age-standardized hysterectomy rates were higher for the lowest neighbourhood educational quartile compared with the highest (relative risk [RR] 1.49; 95% CI 1.39-1.60), higher with rural compared with urban dwelling (RR 1.54; 95% CI 1.47-1.61), varied with local health service delivery area (Local Health Integration Network [LHIN]) (range 133.4-439.5 per 100 000 women), and also varied non-linearly with neighbourhood income quintile. Proportion of hysterectomies performed minimally invasively did not vary with neighbourhood education or income, were higher for rural compared with urban areas (RR 1.10; 95% CI 1.03-1.19), and varied with LHIN (range 30.0-62.9 per 100 hysterectomies). Surgical complications varied with neighbourhood educational quartile, but not with income or urban or rural residence. Considerable social and geographic variation exists in rates of hysterectomy in Ontario, whereas only geographic variation is seen in use of minimally invasive routes. Surgical complication rates vary only by neighbourhood education. Such findings suggest inequities in hysterectomy practice in Ontario, and there is a need to evaluate factors influencing patients' decision making, physicians' clinical and surgical practice, and health system policies to help address the observed disparities.

Although peer-review for journal submission, grant-applications and conference submissions has been called 'a counter- stone of science', and even 'the gold standard for evaluating scientific merit', publications on this topic remain scares. Research that has investigated peer-review reveals several issues and criticisms concerning bias, poor quality review, unreliability and inefficiency. The most important weakness of the peer review process is the inconsistency between reviewers leading to inadequate inter-rater reliability. To report the reliability of ratings for a large international conference and to suggest possible solutions to overcome the problem. In 2016 during the International Conference on Communication in Healthcare, organized by EACH: International Association for Communication in Healthcare, a calibration exercise was proposed and feedback was reported back to the participants of the exercise. Most abstracts, as well as most peer-reviewers, receive and give scores around the median. Contrary to the general assumption that there are high and low scorers, in this group only 3 peer-reviewers could be identified with a high mean, while 7 has a low mean score. Only 2 reviewers gave only high ratings (4 and 5). Of the eight abstracts included in this exercise, only one abstract received a high mean score and one a low mean score. Nevertheless, both these abstracts received both low and high scores; all other abstracts received all possible scores. Peer-review of submissions for conferences are, in accordance with the literature, unreliable. New and creative methods will be needed to give the participants of a conference what they really deserve: a more reliable selection of the best abstracts. More raters per abstract improves the inter-rater reliability; training of reviewers could be helpful; providing feedback to reviewers can lead to less inter-rater disagreement; fostering negative peer-review (rejecting the inappropriate submissions) rather than a positive (accepting the best) could be fruitful for selecting abstracts for conferences.

In this paper, I examine disputes over recent claims that male circumcision reduces HIV risk to suggest a complicated relationship between risk individualization and categorization. Whereas randomized controlled trials (RCTs) conducted in sub-Saharan Africa appear to have provided key evidence for the World Health Organization's endorsement of male circumcision as an HIV prevention strategy, RCTs alone did not provide evidence for the underlying causal mechanism. For that, medical authorities have turned to histo-immunological studies of the foreskin's biomolecular vulnerability to HIV, thus molecularizing risk. Some actors used these studies both as a way of shoring up results of RCTs conducted in sub-Saharan Africa and as an important rationale in arguments for making neonatal circumcision more widely available. Others, however, resisted this move to generalize the RCT results to other parts of the world, citing both contextual differences in HIV transmission patterns and conflicting scientific details regarding the biomolecular basis of the foreskin's susceptibility. Nevertheless, by locating an abstract notion of relative risk in the body itself, I argue that histological studies of foreskin have played a key role in stabilizing male circumcision status as a new risk category, largely independent of a given individual's risk profile.

To assess the cost-effectiveness of different strategies, including gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) and oral contraceptive therapy, for the prevention of endometriosis recurrence after conservative surgery. Cost-effectiveness analysis from a health care perspective. A health-resource-limited setting in China. Patients who underwent conservative laparoscopic or laparotomic surgery for endometriosis. A Markov model was developed for the endometriosis disease course. Clinical data were obtained from published studies. Direct medical costs and resource utilization in the Chinese health care setting were taken into account. The health and economic outcomes were evaluated over a period from treatment initiation to menopause onset. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to test the impact of various parameters and assumptions on the model output. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and costs from a health care perspective. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 6-month GnRH-a therapy compared with no therapy ranged from $6,185 per QALY in deep endometriosis to $6,425 with peritoneal endometriosis. A one-way sensitivity analysis showed considerable influential factors, such as remission rates and utility values. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that 6-month GnRH-a therapy is cost-effective in most cases at a threshold of $7,400/QALY, regardless of the type of endometriosis. Six months of therapy with GnRH-a can be a highly cost-effective option for the prevention of endometriosis recurrence. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist is cost effective for the prevention of endometriosis recurrence.

No abstract available.

Multiple studies indicate a significant association between area-level socio-economic status (SES) and adverse maternal health outcomes; however, the impact of area-level SES on maternal co-morbidities and obstetric interventions has not been examined. To examine the variation in maternal co-morbidities and obstetric interventions across area-level SES. This study used data from the Discharge Abstract Database that comprised birth data in Alberta between 2005-2007 (n = 120 285). Co-morbidities and obstetric interventions were identified using validated case-definitions. Material deprivation index was obtained for each dissemination area through linkage of hospitalisation and census data. Multilevel logistic regression was used to analyse the data adjusting for potential confounding variables. The prevalence of any co-morbidity varied across area-level SES. Drug abuse odds ratio (OR) 2.5 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.8, 3.5), pre-existing diabetes OR 1.7 (95% CI 1.1, 2.6), and prolonged hospital stay OR 1.5 (95% CI 1.4, 1.6) were significantly more likely to occur in the most deprived areas compared to the least deprived areas. In contrast, caesarean delivery OR 0.9 (95% CI 0.8, 0.9) was less likely to occur in the most deprived areas compared to the least deprived areas. Area-level deprivation explained area-level variance of drug abuse, HIV, and other mental diseases only. Many co-morbidities and obstetric interventions vary at the area-level, but only some are associated with area-level SES, and few of them vary due to the area-level SES. This indicates that other area-level factors, in addition to area-level SES, need to be considered when investigating maternal health and use of health interventions.

Patient follow-up is a routine component of clinical practice and valuable for evaluating the effectiveness of interventions, but because of the broad dispersion of health facilities and lack of standardised medical reporting in Malawi, collecting patient outcome data can be challenging. Increasing accessibility and affordability of mobile technology in resource-poor settings may facilitate patient follow-up in the community. The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential utility of mobile phones for collecting follow-up clinical data from parents or caregivers of acutely unwell under-5 children, for intervention evaluation purposes. Parents' or caregivers' mobile phone numbers were obtained by health surveillance assistants (HSAs) during study enrollment. Guardians who provided a telephone number were contacted by the study team to establish re-consultations or hospitalisations of their child(ren) within 14 days of recruitment. Health records at village clinics and higher-level health facilities were hand-searched to identify or confirm presentations and abstract clinical data. 87 out of 149 (58.4%) guardians provided a mobile telephone number, of whom the study team could contact 44 (29.5%). Seven guardians stated they took their child for further treatment: three of these returned to village clinics and four presented to secondary care facilities; attendance could only be confirmed from health records for one child. With continued expansion of cellular network coverage and mobile ownership in Malawi, mobile phones may facilitate collection of patient outcomes for intervention evaluation purposes. Future consideration should also be given to integrating mobile technologies into HSA clinical practice.

Many Chinese people do not contact mental health services when they first develop mental health problems. It is therefore important to find out reasons for low uptake of services so that strategies can be identified to promote early intervention. WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ABOUT THE TOPIC?: Most Chinese people only come into contact with mental health services during crisis situations. Language difference, lack of knowledge of mainstream services and stigma attached to mental health problems are barriers to access and utilize mental health services. WHAT THE STUDY ADDS TO THE INTERNATIONAL EVIDENCE?: Chinese people apply both Western medication and traditional healing to manage distress caused by mental health problems. Because of the extreme stigma associated with mental health problems, Chinese people are reluctant to accept support from their own cultural groups outside their family. Family plays a major role in caring for relatives with mental health problems. Families are prepared to travel across the world in search of folk healing if not available in Western societies. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: It is important to recognize the different approaches to understanding and managing mental health problems among Chinese people, otherwise they will be dissuaded from engaging with mental health services if their beliefs are disregarded and invalidated. Services that involve Chinese speaking mental health workers can address the issue of language differences and sensitive mental health issues within the Chinese community. Introduction Late presentation and low utilization of mental health services are common among Chinese populations. An understanding of their journey towards mental health care helps to identify timely and appropriate intervention. Aim We aimed to examine how Chinese populations make sense of the experiences of mental distress, and how this understanding influences their pathways to mental health care. Method We undertook in-depth interviews with fourteen people with mental health problems (MHPs) and sixteen family members. Thematic analysis was used to analyse data. Results/Discussions Different conceptualization of mental distress and the stigma attached to MHPs explained why most participants accessed services at crisis points. Because of mental illness stigma, they were reluctant to seek help outside of the family. Participants used a pragmatic pluralistic approach to incorporate ritual healing and Western interventions to manage mental distress as they travelled further on the pathway journey. Families play a key role in the journey and are prepared to visit different parts of the world to seek traditional healers. Implications for practice Mental health nurses need to adopt a transcultural working approach to address mental health issues so that family will get the support needed to continue their caring role.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Informal caregivers of psychiatric patients are vulnerable to many disturbances associated with the stress related to their activity. Caregivers who show a coping style focused on problem-solving report less psychological distress, and this approach positively influences the recovery process of the psychiatric patient. There are some questionnaires to measure coping styles in caregivers of psychiatric patients, but most of them do not have the minimum psychometric properties that a scale must fulfil. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The authors present an adapted and validated scale for measuring both active and passive coping strategies used by informal caregivers to face daily stressful situations with psychiatric patients. The study is an example of how scales can be adapted to small samples (n < 200). WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The scale could be helpful for generating strategies to support the family caregiver, as well as for measuring the results of interventions. The scale could also be used to identify how coping styles of informal caregivers are related to recovery process of psychiatric patients. Background The recovery process of a psychiatric patient is related to his primary informal caregiver's style of coping with stress. There is insufficient literature on validations of instruments that measure coping styles in this population. Objective To adapt and validate a scale to measure coping strategies in primary informal caregivers. Method The adapted scale was based on the Extreme Coping Scale of López-Vázquez and Marván. Items from that scale were adapted for application to informal caregivers. The scale was administered to 122 primary informal caregivers of patients from two psychiatric institutions in Mexico. Psychometric analyses were performed to determine the scale's properties. Results The scale was composed of 20 items (six less than in the original scale) and two factors: (i) active coping (Cronbach's alpha = .837) and (ii) passive coping (Cronbach's alpha = .718). Discussion The findings are discussed in the light of the importance of studying the relationship between coping styles and the well-being of both informal caregivers and psychiatric patients. Implications for practice The scale could be used by health practitioners and researchers to generate strategies to support the family caregiver, as well as to measure the results of interventions.

Critical appraisal of clinical evidence promises to help prevent, detect, and address flaws related to study importance, ethics, validity, applicability, and reporting. These research issues are of growing concern. The purpose of this scoping review is to survey the current literature on evidence appraisal to develop a conceptual framework and an informatics research agenda. We conducted an iterative literature search of Medline for discussion or research on the critical appraisal of clinical evidence. After title and abstract review, 121 articles were included in the analysis. We performed qualitative thematic analysis to describe the evidence appraisal architecture and its issues and opportunities. From this analysis, we derived a conceptual framework and an informatics research agenda. We identified 68 themes in 10 categories. This analysis revealed that the practice of evidence appraisal is quite common but is rarely subjected to documentation, organization, validation, integration, or uptake. This is related to underdeveloped tools, scant incentives, and insufficient acquisition of appraisal data and transformation of the data into usable knowledge. The gaps in acquiring appraisal data, transforming the data into actionable information and knowledge, and ensuring its dissemination and adoption can be addressed with proven informatics approaches. Evidence appraisal faces several challenges, but implementing an informatics research agenda would likely help realize the potential of evidence appraisal for improving the rigor and value of clinical evidence.

Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) constitutes a neurobehavioral disorder which may potentially adversely affect children's wellbeing and academic achievement. The onset of symptoms is present prior to 12 years of age, and often the symptoms are evident in the preschool years. In fact, it has been suggested that screening for ADHD symptoms may be initiated as early as four years of age. Preschool children with ADHD have been shown to present with poor pre-academic skills and might be at increased risk for numerous school-related problems, including functional impairment during elementary school years and persistent poor academic performance thereafter. Although preschool years are characterized by rapid cognitive growth, preschoolers with ADHD may present with poorer cognitive and neuropsychological functioning. Due to the early onset of ADHD symptoms, exploring the cognitive correlates of this condition among preschool children is thought to be of notable importance. The aim of the present study was to evaluate any association between ADHD symptoms and cognitive skills among preschool children. A cross-sectional study was conducted among a nationwide random sample of 4,480 preschool children. ADHD symptoms were assessed though interviews with parents and teachers based on DSM-IV-TR criteria. Cognitive skills were assessed through a standardized school readiness test (A' TEST). Among participants, the occurrence of ADHD symptoms was 4.6% (boys/girls: 3.4/1). The presence of ADHD symptoms among children was inversely associated with non-verbal and verbal cognitive skills; specifically, with abstract thinking (aOR 1.97, 95% CI 1.30-3.00), language (2.36, 1.55-3.59), critical reasoning (2.58, 1.84-3.62), visual perception (2.42, 1.38- 4.24), and visual motor skills (2.61, 1.91-3.55). Children with ADHD symptoms were five times as likely to have compromised organizational skills (4.92, 3.04-7.97). Abstract thinking was the least affected domain particularly among boys, while organizational skills were the most affected domain in both sexes, and possibly more among girls. Concluding, the present study confirms that even during preschool years, children with ADHD symptoms are more likely to present with concomitant cognitive difficulties. Thus, screening for the presence of ADHD, as well as cognitive and affective screenings among preschool aged children may facilitate the early detection and determent of the development of cognitive difficulties, and subsequently the early intervention for fostering skills that are amenable to change, such as organizational skills and planning. As a result, the study findings reveal the necessity for the evaluation of pre-academic skills among preschool children with ADHD symptoms in order to mitigate unfavorable academic functioning.

The prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is reported to be 2.2%-8% among men >65 years. During recent years, screening programs have been developed to detect AAA, prevent ruptures, and thereby saving lives. Therefore, most men with the diagnosis are monitored conservatively with regular reviews. The objective of the study was to describe how men diagnosed with abdominal aortic aneurysm <55 mm discovered by screening experience the process and diagnosis from invitation to 1 year after screening. A total of eleven 65-year-old men were included in three focus groups performed in a University Hospital in Sweden. These were qualitatively analyzed using manifest and latent content analysis. The experience of the screening process and having an abdominal aortic aneurysm in a long-term perspective revealed three categories: "trusting the health care system," emphasizing the need for continual follow-ups to ensure feelings of security; "the importance size," meaning that the measure was abstract and hard to understand; and "coping with the knowledge of abdominal aortic aneurysm," denoting how everyday life was based mostly on beliefs, since a majority lacked understanding about the meaning of the condition. The men want regular surveillance and surrendered to the health care system, but simultaneously experienced a lack of support thereof. Knowing the size of the aorta was important. The men expressed insecurity about how lifestyle might influence the abdominal aortic aneurysm and what they could do to improve their health condition. This highlights the importance of communicating knowledge about the abdominal aortic aneurysm to promote men's feelings of security and giving space to discuss the size of the aneurysm and lifestyle changes.

Mounting evidence suggests that laws and policies prohibiting illegal drug use could have a central role in shaping health outcomes among people who inject drugs (PWID). To date, no systematic review has characterised the influence of laws and legal frameworks prohibiting drug use on HIV prevention and treatment. Consistent with PRISMA guidelines, we did a systematic review of peer-reviewed scientific evidence describing the association between criminalisation of drug use and HIV prevention and treatment-related outcomes among PWID. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, SCOPUS, PsycINFO, Sociological Abstracts, CINAHL, Web of Science, and other sources. To be included in our review, a study had to meet the following eligibility criteria: be published in a peer-reviewed journal or presented as a peer-reviewed abstract at a scientific conference; examine, through any study design, the association between an a-priori set of indicators related to the criminalisation of drugs and HIV prevention or treatment among PWID; provide sufficient details on the methods followed to allow critical assessment of quality; be published or presented between Jan 1, 2006, and Dec 31, 2014; and be published in the English language. We identified 106 eligible studies comprising 29 longitudinal, 49 cross-sectional, 22 qualitative, two mixed methods, four mathematical modelling studies, and no randomised controlled trials. 120 criminalisation indicators were identified (range 1-3 per study) and 150 HIV indicators were identified (1-5 per study). The most common criminalisation indicators were incarceration (n=38) and street-level policing (n=39), while the most frequent HIV prevention and treatment indicators were syringe sharing (n=35) and prevalence of HIV infection among PWID (n=28). Among the 106 studies included in this review, 85 (80%) suggested that drug criminalisation has a negative effect on HIV prevention and treatment, 10 (9%) suggested no association, five (5%) suggested a beneficial effect, one (1%) suggested both beneficial and negative effects, and five (5%) suggested both null and negative effects. These data confirm that criminalisation of drug use has a negative effect on HIV prevention and treatment. Our results provide an objective evidence base to support numerous international policy initiatives to reform legal and policy frameworks criminalising drug use. Canadian Institutes of Health Research and US National Institutes of Health.

In her article "Rule of Rescue vs. Rescue of statistical lives" [1] Weyma Lübbe elevates gut feelings supporting the "rule of rescue" to "civic judgments". Without doubt in a constitutional democracy ultimately the judgments and aspirations of citizens must be decisive. Yet, particularly in the field of health policy, the bias to overemphasize what are closer rather than more remote, concrete rather than abstract consequences, should be counteracted not supported. The utility forgone by observing the "rule of rescue" in health care must be held against it. Making the "opportunity costs" of applying the rule of rescue visible is part of the citizens' "health ethic information package" and not as such an attack on the "Rule of Rescue".

The emergence of improved antiretroviral therapy has increased the life expectancy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals, although there is an increased susceptibility to developing cardiovascular diseases (CVD). The risk for CVD is purported to be even higher among people with HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) coinfection because of the increased inflammatory response, which may synergistically impact CVD risk. However, studies comparing CVD outcomes between HIV alone and HIV/HCV individuals have been discordant. Accordingly, we conducted a meta-analysis to clarify and quantify the association between HIV/HCV coinfection and the risk for CVD. We searched EMBASE, CINAHL, Google Scholar, PubMed, and Web of Science from inception to December 2016 to identify studies that provided information on HIV/HCV coinfection and CVD, defined as coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure and stroke. We used a random-effects model to abstract and pool data on the hazard ratios (HRs) for CVD. HRs were adjusted for traditional CVD risk factors including age, sex, smoking, hypertension, diabetes and LDL cholesterol. Among the 283 articles reviewed, four cohort studies met inclusion criteria with a total of 33 723 participants. The pooled adjusted HRs for the association between HIV/HCV coinfection and CVD were 1.24 (95% CI: 1.07-1.40) compared to HIV monoinfection. The test for heterogeneity was not statistically significant (I

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Existing literature provides insight into the general experience of carers of people with a mental illness. Previous studies have found that carers experience a range of emotions when looking after their relatives with a mental illness. However, experiences of carers as they engage with the healthcare system is largely absent from the literature. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This paper identified the experiences of carers when their relatives are experiencing a crisis or acutely unwell. Carers found themselves in the middle between mental health services and their relatives. Strategies employed by carers to ensure their relatives receive adequate care were identified from this study. This paper identified how carers needed to become more assertive in order to receive adequate care for their relatives, and this finding has implications for any future carer education. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The participants identified the need to work more collaboratively with carers of people with a mental illness as they seek treatment for their relatives in order to achieve better health outcomes for the patients. Improved health service engagement of carers was seen by participants to assist them to better care for their relative. The study also found that there needs to be a clearer definition as to what constitutes mental health crisis and how carers are able to intervene during this period. Services could provide clear information concerning crisis services and in particular triage. Aim The literature reporting experiences of relatives of people with mental illness regarding their interactions with mental health services identifies many commonalities. However, the actual experience of carers engaging the services and understanding healthcare systems remains a gap in the literature. The aim of this study was to explore the experiences of carers (of people with a severe mental illness) in a major area mental health service in Victoria Australia as they fulfil their caring role while negotiating support for their relative. A carer is defined as a family member or significant other who is the primary individual who provides informal care for a person with severe mental illness and may or may not be in receipt of income supplement for such a role. Specifically this study has a focus on the experience of the carer when negotiating care needs or admission with a mental health service. Method A qualitative descriptive approach was used with five focus groups as a means of data collection. Ethical approval for the study was obtained from both the hospital and universities ethics committees. Results Key themes identified using thematic analysis are presented in the words of the carers and include: "Juggling" between services; We became assertive and If only they would listen. Often carers were advocating for their relative and needing to negotiate between services (police and crisis assessment teams) to gain any form of assessment or intervention. Carers often spent a great deal of time on the phone to services only to be told that their relative was "not sick enough" to access care or that no response would occur without another service also being involved. Discussion Our research highlights the importance of working collaboratively with informal carers and acknowledging their valuable contribution to the care of their relatives with a severe mental illness. It is very important that adequate support is given to carers especially during the period when their relatives are experiencing a crisis. An understanding of their experiences ensures a more family focused approach towards care. The study findings should enable the healthcare team to focus attention on the issues which are most pertinent to carers. Nurses are advocates not only for the patient but also for their families. Relevance statement Carers supporting a person who experiences mental illness can often find themselves in difficult and emotionally challenging situations such as at times of crisis and admission to mental health services. The fourth and latest Australian National Mental Health Plan (2009-2014) acknowledged these concerns and highlighted the need to recognize the role of carers in promoting well-being and recovery of the relative with a mental illness. The plan acknowledges that families are often best placed to recognize signs of relapse in their family members with a mental illness and discharge planning should include the involvement of family members (Commonwealth of Australia, ). To achieve best care outcomes for consumers, mental health nurses need to recognize the role of the carer and collaborate in care planning.

Because behavioral problems often emerge from maladaptive coping methods, we investigated whether unmet basic psychological needs evolve toward a level of psychological vulnerability that puts older adults who gamble at risk for becoming problem gamblers. Data from a community sample of 379 adults ages 60 and above were analyzed using structural equation modeling. Participants responded to items regarding their demographics, gambling frequency, engagement in at-risk gambling behaviors, and the extent to which their basic psychological needs were met. Satisfaction of basic psychological needs among older adults who gamble was negatively associated with their being at risk for developing a gambling problem. Satisfaction of basic psychological needs also mediated the negative effect of socioeconomic status on at-risk gambling behavior. Social workers should become mindful of how older adults, who are confronting psychological vulnerabilities in later life, might well turn to gambling as a maladaptive coping mechanism.As per journal style, abstract must not exceed100 words. Please amend accordingly.

'Living in Harmony with Nature' is a 2050 vision put forth by the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) which takes into consideration culture and locality of perceptions of nature and aspirations for its use. Considering that 54% of the world population lives in cities, where nature has been decimated, the role of rural communities, living within or in proximity of natural and semi natural areas, will effectively influence the fate of the 'remaining' nature while they engage in local development. Reconciling between growth and development on the one hand, and nature conservation on the other, necessitates an understanding of how rural communities, especially the youth, imprint their own ideas on landscapes and develop ownership over natural spaces. In order to extend the understanding of how harmony with nature is perceived in different parts of the world, this paper presents the findings of primary research involving a group of young people who live in rural areas in Lebanon, a country in the Arab Middle East. Participatory research based on photovoice methodology was conducted with 77 young people aged 7-16 and residing in five rural villages located in different parts of Lebanon. Photographs taken by participants indicated that for many, nature was not perceived literally i.e. woodlands, forests, plants, animals, etc…. Instead, the participants saw nature as part of agriculture and local culture. Nature was also seen as symbolic expression of the participants' inner state of mind. Narratives written to explain the photographs shed light on the perception of harmony with nature which focused on positive family experiences and relayed personal emotions, abstract, and holistic yet functional view of nature. Another recurring theme that emerged from photographs and narratives was the role of family members, in particular grandparents, as having a strong influence on the positive perceptions of nature.

Renal replacement therapy (RRT) is important to support critically ill patients with acute kidney injury (AKI). This study, a part of a nation-wide survey for AKI conducted by the ISN AKF 0 by 25 China Consortium, aims to study the current RRT practical situation and problems in China. The current study is a part of a nation-wide survey for AKI conducted by ISN AKF 0 by 25 China Consortium. The survey included 44 sites all over the country, including 22 academic hospitals in big cities and 22 local hospitals in smaller cities or rural areas. Of the 44 sites, all have access to PD and IHD, 93.5% are capable to perform CRRT. Of total 7604 AKI cases, 896 cases (11.8%) had indications for RRT and were included in the current abstract. of the 896 patients that had indications for RRT, only 59.3% received RRT. Patients who were older, male, from lower income areas, in local hospitals, or with severe comorbidities, were less likely to receive RRT. RRT treatment was associated with lower mortality (OR = 0.58, 95%CI 0.38-0.89). The RRT modalities were continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) in 53.9%, intermittent hemodialysis (IHD) in 38.0%, CRRT complemented by IHD in 6.2%, CRRT complemented by peritoneal dialysis (PD) in 0.8% and PD in 1.1%. Of the subgroup of patients receiving RRT who did not have an indication for modality of CRRT, 36.8% in fact received CRRT, and their medical cost and mortality rate was higher (7944[4248, 16,055] vs. 5100[2948, 9396] US dollars, p < 0.001 and 10.6% vs. 4.4%, p = 0.047, respectively) compared with those treated with other RRT modalities). Extrapolated to the whole of China our results indicate that an estimated 139,000 patients with an indication of RRT are under treated without RRT over a year. Non-clinical factors influence RRT prescription for severe AKI patients. CRRT may be over-utilized in the treatment of severe AKI and the use of PD is extremely rare. These findings have implications for the effective application of medical resources in the treatment of severe AKI.

Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and de novo variant detection have proven a powerful approach to gene discovery in complex neurodevelopmental disorders. We have completed WES of 325 Tourette disorder trios from the Tourette International Collaborative Genetics cohort and a replication sample of 186 trios from the Tourette Syndrome Association International Consortium on Genetics (511 total). We observe strong and consistent evidence for the contribution of de novo likely gene-disrupting (LGD) variants (rate ratio [RR] 2.32, p = 0.002). Additionally, de novo damaging variants (LGD and probably damaging missense) are overrepresented in probands (RR 1.37, p = 0.003). We identify four likely risk genes with multiple de novo damaging variants in unrelated probands: WWC1 (WW and C2 domain containing 1), CELSR3 (Cadherin EGF LAG seven-pass G-type receptor 3), NIPBL (Nipped-B-like), and FN1 (fibronectin 1). Overall, we estimate that de novo damaging variants in approximately 400 genes contribute risk in 12% of clinical cases. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Solutions delivered within firm sectoral boundaries are inadequate in achieving income security and better health for poor populations. Integrated microfinance and health interventions leverage networks of women to promote financial inclusion, build livelihoods, and safeguard against high cost illnesses. Our understanding of the effect of integrated interventions has been limited by variability in intervention, outcome, design, and methodological rigour. This systematic review synthesises the literature through 2015 to understand the effect of integrated microfinance and health programs. We searched PubMed, Scopus, Embase, EconLit, and Global Health databases and sourced bibliographies, identifying 964 articles exclusive of duplicates. Title, abstract, and full text review yielded 35 articles. Articles evaluated the effect of intentionally integrated microfinance and health programs on client outcomes. We rated the quality of evidence for each article. Most interventions combined microfinance with health education, which demonstrated positive effects on health knowledge and behaviours, though not health status. Among programs that integrated microfinance with other health components ( i.e. health micro-insurance, linkages to health providers, and access to health products), results were generally positive but mixed due to the smaller number and quality of studies. Interventions combining multiple health components in a given study demonstrated positive effects, though it was unclear which component was driving the effect. Most articles (57%) were moderate in quality. Integrated microfinance and health education programs were effective, though longer intervention periods are necessary to measure more complex pathways to health status. The effect of microfinance combined with other health components was less clear. Stronger randomized research designs with multiple study arms are required to improve evidence and disentangle the effects of multiple component microfinance and health interventions. Few studies attempted to understand changes in economic outcomes, limiting our understanding of the relationship between health and income effects.

In this paper, we extend some usual techniques of classification resulting from a large-scale data-mining and network approach. This new technology, which in particular is designed to be suitable to big data, is used to construct an open consolidated database from raw data on 4 million patents taken from the US patent office from 1976 onward. To build the pattern network, not only do we look at each patent title, but we also examine their full abstract and extract the relevant keywords accordingly. We refer to this classification as semantic approach in contrast with the more common technological approach which consists in taking the topology when considering US Patent office technological classes. Moreover, we document that both approaches have highly different topological measures and strong statistical evidence that they feature a different model. This suggests that our method is a useful tool to extract endogenous information.

Endometriosis constitutes a significant burden on the quality of life of women, their families and healthcare systems. The objective of this study is to describe the real-world epidemiology of endometriosis in an unselected low-risk population in Israel. Retrospective population-based study. The computerised databases of Maccabi Healthcare Services (MHS), a 2-million-member healthcare provider representing a quarter of the Israeli population. The crude point prevalence (31 December 2015; diagnosed since 1998) and annual incidence (2000-2015) rates of diagnosed endometriosis (ICD-9-CM 617.xx) were assessed among women aged 15-55 years. Prevalent patients were characterised in terms of sociodemographic and clinical characteristics, including validated MHS infertility and chronic disease registries. Prevalence and incidence of diagnosed endometriosis in MHS. The point prevalence of endometriosis [n = 6146, mean age 40.4 ± 8.0 years (SD)] was 10.8 per 1000 (95% CI 10.5-11.0). Women aged 40-44 years had the highest prevalence rate of 18.6 per 1000 (95% CI 17.7-19.5). Infertility was documented in 37% of patients. A total of 6045 patients were included in the cohort of newly-diagnosed endometriosis (mean age 34.0 ± 8.1 years), corresponding to an average annual incidence rate of 7.2 per 10 000 (95% CI 6.5-8.0). We observed a substantially lower prevalence of diagnosed endometriosis compared with previous reports in high-risk populations, in line with population-based estimates from European databases (range 0.8-1.8%). Further characterisation of this cohort may help to understand what affects the prevalence of endometriosis in Israel, and to promote earlier diagnosis and improve management in clinical practice. Endometriosis diagnosed in 1% of women, according to a large population-based study in a community setting.

This study examined whether children's values, global and abstract motivations serving as guiding principles, are organized similarly to those of adults, whether values can predict individual differences in children's sharing behaviors, and whether the normative nature of the situation influences the expression of these individual differences. Children (N=243, ages 5-12years) participated in a values ranking task as part of a visit to a science museum. The majority of children (n=150) also participated in a task examining costly sharing (i.e., sharing that results in giving up part of one's own resources) and non-costly giving (i.e., giving that does not influence one's own share). Starting from 5years of age, children showed a structure of values similar to that of adolescents and adults, specifically contrasting preferences for opposing values (i.e., self-transcendence with self-enhancement and openness to change with conservation). Importance given to self-transcendence values related positively to costly sharing but not to non-costly giving, indicating that in situations where it is more normative to share, individual differences in values are less expressed in children's actual sharing. In addition, children's sex and age moderated the relation between values and behavior. Children's values are an important aspect of their developing personalities. Taking them into consideration can greatly promote the research of prosocial and normative development as well as our understanding of individual differences in children's behavior.

Standardized late preterm infant (LPI) discharge criteria ensure best practice and help guide the neonatal provider to determine the appropriate level of care following birth. However, the location can vary from the well newborn setting to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). The purpose of this review is to examine differences in LPI discharge criteria between the well newborn setting and the NICU by answering the clinical questions, "What are the recommended discharge criteria for the LPI and do they differ if admitted to the well newborn setting versus the NICU?" Databases searched include CINAHL, TRIP, PubMed, and the Cochrane Library. Focusing first on the highest level of evidence, position statements, policy statements, and clinical practice guidelines were reviewed, followed by original research. There were few differences shown between settings. Discharge criteria included physiological stability and completed screenings for hearing loss, hyperbilirubinemia, car seat safety, hypoglycemia, critical congenital heart disease, and sepsis. Parent education is provided on umbilical cord care, feeding, elimination, and weight gain norms. Recommended maternal assessment included screenings for depression, drug use, safe home environment, and presence of social support. In general, research supported protecting the mother-infant dyad. Developing a standardized approach for discharge criteria for LPIs may improve outcomes and reduce maternal stress. Research is needed to compare health and cost outcomes between settings.Video Abstract available at http://links.lww.com/ANC/A29.

This article uses ethnographic research to reflect upon how the treatment of 'everyday' illnesses in Niger engages concepts of social identity. Inspired by Bourdieu's concept of social distinction, as well as Appadurai's edited volume on the 'social lives' of 'things', I present an analysis of how medications are understood by their users in terms of social and ideological meaning in one rural Hausa village. Decisions about medication choice were framed by three main themes: belonging to the 'modern' world, 'traditional' Hausa culture, and religious identity. This article does not argue that these notions of identity fully explain medication use, nor necessarily predict treatment choices. The purpose of this paper is to reflect on the dynamic meanings given to treatment decisions after they have been made, attributed to the medications themselves and negotiated through their circulation in a context where multiple medical systems are drawn from to manage illness. Producers and sellers of medication also engage these meaning-centred concepts, which have theoretical and practical interest for the social sciences and public health. A virtual abstract for this paper can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA.

The mobile phase additive (DMSO) has been described as a useful tool to enhance electrospray ionization (ESI) of peptides and proteins. So far, this technique has mainly been used in proteomic/peptide research, and its applicability in a routine clinical laboratory setting (i.e., doping control analysis) has not been described yet. This work provides a simple, easy to implement screening method for the detection of doping relevant small peptides (GHRPs, GnRHs, GHS, and vasopressin-analogues) with molecular weight less than 2 kDa applying DMSO in the mobile phase. The gain in sensitivity was sufficient to inject the urine samples after a 2-fold dilution step omitting a time consuming sample preparation. The employed analytical procedure was validated for the qualitative determination of 36 compounds, including 13 metabolites. The detection limits (LODs) ranged between 50 and 1000 pg/mL and were compliant with the 2 ng/mL minimum detection level required by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) for all the target peptides. To demonstrate the feasibility of the work, urine samples obtained from patients who have been treated with desmopressin or leuprolide and urine samples that have been declared as adverse analytical findings were analyzed. Graphical Abstract ᅟ.

The introduction of PSWs within mental health services has grown substantially both internationally and locally; however, no recognized studies have focused on the evolvement of this role within a Northern Ireland (NI) context. Research is increasingly focusing on service users' and PSWs perspectives on mental health service provision. Despite this, few studies exist which exclusively report staff views in relation to the PSW role. Results of the current study identified varying perspectives on the peer role. Some participants believed that the PSW role was tokenistic; others opposed these views, highlighting the value of this role. Clearly defined job descriptions and the importance of ensuring the PSW is a cohesive part of the team and not an "add on," was identified as imperative to avoid tokenistic practice. Provision of a flexible working environment, both sensitive and responsive to the peers' own mental health needs, was identified as significant in order for the peer to fulfil their role successfully. Services introducing PSWs within teams should engage with nursing staff at all organizational levels in the role development process to minimize the risk of tokenism, for example, the PSW role not integrated or valued within teams. Clearly defined job/role specifications for PSWs should be devised to ensure that both the PSW and the mental health nursing team have a shared understanding regarding this role. Aim Peer support worker (PSW) roles are gaining recognition internationally as a valuable component in mental health service delivery. The aim of this study was to explore the views of mental health voluntary sector staff regarding the emergence of this role. Method A qualitative research design was used. A purposive sample was employed. Semi-structured interviews were undertaken with 10 staff members in various positions in two voluntary mental health organizations. Interview transcripts were analysed thematically. Results Views varied on the PSW role with some participants stating that it was tokenistic, whereas others highlighted the value of its contribution. Participants' expressed concerns regarding professional boundaries and organizational cultural challenges that PSWs may encounter in their role. The provision of reasonable adjustments was recommended as an integral support mechanism. Conclusion Successful integration of the PSW requires careful consideration of the role, the workplace environment and the unique needs of the peer, to prevent the role becoming constrained and diluted. Implications for practice The PSW role may impact the traditional delivery of mental health nursing services. It is therefore essential that nurses are cognizant of these potential challenges to successfully facilitate the integration of PSWs in practice.

Respiratory diseases are among the leading causes of acute care hospitalization for First Nations people. Poor housing conditions are associated with respiratory disorders and may be related to the likelihood of hospitalization. This analysis examines whether First Nations identity is associated with higher odds of hospitalization for respiratory conditions relative to non-Aboriginal persons, and whether such differences in hospitalization rates remain after consideration of housing conditions. Data from the 2006 Census linked to the Discharge Abstract Database were used to analyze differences in hospitalization for respiratory tract infections and asthma between First Nations and non-Aboriginal people when housing conditions were taken into account. Rural on-reserve First Nations people were more likely than non-Aboriginal people to be hospitalized for a respiratory tract infection (1.5% versus 0.5%) or for asthma (0.2% versus 0.1%). For respiratory tract infection hospitalizations, adjustment for housing conditions, household income and residential location reduced differences, but the odds remained nearly three times higher for on-reserve First Nations people (OR = 2.83; CI: 2.69 to 2.99) and two times higher for off-reserve First Nations people (OR = 2.03; CI: 1.87 to 2.21), compared with the non-Aboriginal cohort. For asthma hospitalizations, adjustment for household income reduced the odds more than did adjustment for housing conditions. Even with full adjustment, the odds of asthma hospitalization relative to non-Aboriginal people remained significantly higher for First Nations people. First Nations people are significantly more likely than non-Aboriginal people to be hospitalized for respiratory tract infections and asthma, even when housing conditions, household income and residential location are taken into account. While housing conditions are associated with such hospitalizations, household income may be more important.

Adolescents with asthma are at high risk of poor adherence with treatment. This may be compounded by activities that worsen asthma, in particular smoking. Additional support above and beyond routine care has the potential to encourage good self-management. We wanted to find out whether sessions led by their peers or by lay leaders help to reduce these risks and improve asthma outcomes among adolescents. To assess the safety and efficacy of lay-led and peer support interventions for adolescents with asthma. We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Trials Register, which contains reports of randomised trials obtained from multiple electronic and handsearched sources, and we searched trial registries and reference lists of primary studies. We conducted the most recent searches on 25 November 2016. Eligible studies randomised adolescents with asthma to an intervention led by lay people or peers or to a control. We included parallel randomised controlled trials with individual or cluster designs. We included studies reported as full text, those published as abstract only and unpublished data. Two review authors screened the searches, extracted numerical data and study characteristics and assessed each included study for risk of bias. Primary outcomes were asthma-related quality of life and exacerbations requiring at least a course of oral steroids. We graded the analyses and presented evidence in a 'Summary of findings' table.We analysed dichotomous data as odds ratios, and continuous data as mean differences (MD) or standardised mean differences, all with a random-effects model. We assessed clinical, methodological and statistical heterogeneity when performing meta-analyses, and we described skewed data narratively. Five studies including a total of 1146 participants met the inclusion criteria for this review. As ever with systematic reviews of complex interventions, studies varied by design (cluster and individually randomised), duration (2.5 to 9 months), setting (school, day camp, primary care) and intervention content. Most risk of bias concerns were related to blinding and incomplete reporting, which limited the meta-analyses that could be performed. Studies generally controlled well for selection and attrition biases.All participants were between 11 and 17 years of age. Asthma diagnosis and severity varied, as did smoking prevalence. Three studies used the Triple A programme; one of these studies tested the addition of a smoke-free pledge; another delivered peer support group sessions and mp3 messaging to encourage adherence; and the third compared a peer-led asthma day camp with an equivalent camp led by healthcare practitioners.We had low confidence in all findings owing to risk of bias, inconsistency and imprecision. Results from an analysis of asthma-related quality of life based on the prespecified random-effects model were imprecise and showed no differences (MD 0.40, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.02 to 0.81); a sensitivity analysis based on a fixed-effect model and a responder analysis suggested small benefit may be derived for this outcome. Most other results were summarised narratively and did not show an important benefit of the intervention; studies provided no analysable data on asthma exacerbations or unscheduled visits (data were skewed), and one study measuring adherence reported a drop in both groups. Effects on asthma control favoured the intervention but findings were not statistically significant. Results from two studies with high levels of baseline smoking showed some promise for self-efficacy to stop smoking, but overall nicotine dependence and smoking-related knowledge were not significantly better in the intervention group. Investigators did not report adverse events. Although weak evidence suggests that lay-led and peer support interventions could lead to a small improvement in asthma-related quality of life for adolescents, benefits for asthma control, exacerbations and medication adherence remain unproven. Current evidence is insufficient to reveal whether routine use of lay-led or peer support programmes is beneficial for adolescents receiving asthma care.Ongoing and future research may help to identify target populations for lay-led and peer support interventions, along with attributes that constitute a successful programme.

There is increased clinical and political attention towards integrating general and psychiatric emergency departments (ED). However, research into psychiatric service users' experiences regarding general EDs is limited. To identify and summarize current, qualitative evidence regarding service users' experiences attending EDs. A secondary aim is to apply and test the newly developed CERQual approach to summarizing qualitative review findings. A systematic literature review of five databases based on PRISMA guidelines yielded 3334 unique entries. Screening by title/abstract identified 57 studies and, after full text assessment, nine studies were included. The included studies were critically appraised using CASP. Thematic synthesis was applied for data extraction and identification of findings. The CERQual approach was utilized to assess the confidence of the findings. The results of the review showed moderate confidence in the findings that service users experience meeting caring and judgmental ED staff, and that waiting times and a stressful environment are integral to their ED experiences. In contrast, low-to-very low confidence was seen in the findings that service users experience having their symptoms ignored and that EDs are used due to a lack of alternatives. A companion may improve service users experience and outcome of ED visits. Service users experience stress and discomfort in the ED. Service users highly appreciate knowing staff who can ease the discomfort. Overall, the results of this review speak in favour of integrated EDs where service users' needs are more likely to be recognized and accommodated.

Stroke is the second most common cause of death, and a common cause of dependency and dementia. Adult vascular risk factors and socioeconomic status (SES) are associated with increased risk, but less is known about early life risk factors, such as education, childhood SES, or intelligence (IQ). We comprehensively searched Medline, PsycINFO, and EMBASE from inception to November 2015. We included all studies reporting data on >50 strokes examining childhood/premorbid IQ, SES, and education. Two reviewers independently screened full texts and extracted and cross-checked data, including available risk factor adjustments. We meta-analyzed stroke risk using hazard ratios (HR), odds ratios (OR), and mean differences (MD). We tested effects of study and participant characteristics in sensitivity analyses and meta-regression, and assessed heterogeneity and publication bias. We identified 90 studies examining stroke risk and education (79), SES (10), or IQ (nine) including approximately 164,683 stroke and over 5 million stroke-free participants. Stroke risk increased with lower education (OR = 1.35, 95% CI = 1.24, 1.48), SES (OR = 1.28, 95% CI = 1.12, 1.46), and IQ (HR = 1.17, 95% CI = 1.00, 1.37) in studies reporting point estimates, with similar associations for MD. We found minimal publication bias. Between-study heterogeneity was partly explained by participant age and case ascertainment method. Education, childhood SES, and intelligence have modest but important associations with lifetime stroke, and hence dementia, risks. Future studies distinguishing between the individual and combined effects of education, childhood SES and intelligence are needed to determine the independent contribution of each factor to stroke risk. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B210.

Sickle cell disease is an autosomal recessive inherited haemoglobinopathy which causes painful vaso-occlusive crises due to sickle red blood cell dehydration. Vaso-occlusive crises are common painful events responsible for a variety of clinical complications; overall mortality is increased and life expectancy decreased compared to the general population. Experimental studies suggest that intravenous magnesium has proven to be well-tolerated in individuals hospitalised for the immediate relief of acute (sudden onset) painful crisis and has the potential to decrease the length of hospital stay. Some in vitro studies and open studies of long-term oral magnesium showed promising effect on pain relief but failed to show its efficacy. The studies show that oral magnesium therapy may prevent sickle red blood cell dehydration and prevent recurrent painful episodes. There is a need to access evidence for the impact of oral and intravenous magnesium effect on frequency of pain, length of hospital stay and quality of life. To evaluate the effects of short-term intravenous magnesium on the length of hospital stay and quality of life in children and adults with sickle cell disease. To determine the effects of long-term oral magnesium therapy on the frequency of painful crises and the quality of life in children and adults with sickle cell disease. We searched the Cochrane Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, compiled from electronic database searches and handsearching of journals and conference abstract books.Date of last search of the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 01 December 2016.Date of last search of other resources (clinical trials registries): 29 March 2017. We searched for published and unpublished randomized controlled studies of oral or intravenous magnesium compared to placebo or no magnesium. Authors independently assessed the study quality and extracted the data using standard Cochrane methodologies. We included five randomized placebo-controlled studies with a total of 386 participants (aged three to 53 years). Two shorter parallel studies (n = 306) compared intravenous magnesium sulphate to placebo (normal saline) for admission to hospital due to a vaso-occlusive crisis, for which we were able to analyse data. The quality of evidence was moderate for studies presenting this comparison mainly due to limitations due to risk of bias and imprecision. Two of the three longer-term studies comparing oral magnesium pidolate to placebo had a cross-over design. The third was a parallel factorial study which compared hydroxyurea and oral magnesium to each other and to placebo over a longer period of time; we only present the comparison of oral magnesium to placebo from this study. The quality of evidence was very low with uncertainty of the estimation.The eight-hourly dose levels in the two studies of intravenous magnesium were different; one used 100 mg/kg while the second used 40 mg/kg. Only one of these studies (n = 104) reported the mean daily pain score while hospitalised (a non-significant difference between groups, moderate quality evidence). The second study (n = 202) reported a number of child- and parent-reported quality of life scores. None of the scores showed any difference between treatment groups (low quality evidence). Data from one study (n = 106) showed no difference in length of stay in hospital between groups (low quality evidence). Both studies reported on adverse events, but not defined by severity as we had planned. One study showed significantly more participants receiving intravenous magnesium experienced warmth at infusion site compared to placebo; there were no differences between groups for other adverse events (low quality evidence).Three studies (n = 80) compared oral magnesium pidolate to placebo. None of them reported data which we were able to analyse. One study (n = 24) reported on the number of painful days and stated there was no difference between two groups (low quality evidence). None of the studies reported on quality of life or length of hospital stay. Two studies (n = 68) reported there were no differences in levels of magnesium in either plasma or red blood cells (moderate quality evidence). Two studies (n = 56) reported adverse events. One reported episodes of mild diarrhoea and headache, all of which resolved without stopping treatment. The second study reported adverse events as gastrointestinal disorders, headache or migraine, upper respiratory infections and rash; which were all evenly distributed across treatment groups (moderate quality evidence). Moderate to low quality evidence showed neither intravenous magnesium and oral magnesium therapy has an effect on reducing painful crisis, length of hospital stay and changing quality of life in treating sickle cell disease. Therefore, no definitive conclusions can be made regarding its clinical benefit. Further randomized controlled studies, perhaps multicentre, are necessary to establish whether intravenous and oral magnesium therapies have any effect on improving the health of people with sickle cell disease.

Patient or visitor perpetrated workplace violence (WPV) has been reported to be a common occurrence within the ED. No universal definition of violence or recording of such events exists. In addition ED staff are often reluctant to report violent incidents. The true incidence of WPV is therefore unclear. This systematic review aimed to quantify WPV in EDs. The association of WPV to drug and alcohol exposure was explored. The databases MEDLINE, Embase, PsycInfo and the Cochrane Library were searched from their commencement to 10 March 2016. MeSH terms and text words for ED, violence and aggression were combined. A meta-analysis was conducted on the primary outcome variable-proportion of violent patients among total ED presentations. A secondary meta-analysis used studies reporting on proportion of drug and alcohol affected patients occurring within the violent population. The search yielded a total of 8720 records. A total of 7235 were unique and underwent abstract screening. A total of 22 studies were deemed relevant according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. Retrospective study design predominated, analysing mainly security records and incident reports. The rates of violence from individual studies ranged from 1 incident to 172 incidents per 10 000 presentations. The pooled incidence suggests there are 36 violent patients for every 10 000 presentations to the ED (95% confidence interval 0.0030-0.0043). WPV in the ED was commonly reported. There is wide heterogeneity across the study methodology, definitions and rates. More standardised recording and reporting may inform preventive measures and highlight effective management strategies.

A critical period for persons with first-episode psychosis is the first two years after diagnosis, when they are at high risk of suicide attempts, violent behaviors and substance abuse. This period also has a great impact on the psychological distress of family members, particularly caregivers who either provide care or live with ill family members. In addition, the families also report feelings of being overwhelmed when accessing service facilities at this critical point. These consequences impact on the affective tone/atmosphere in the family, also referred to as so-called expressed emotion. In addition, expressed emotion research has indicated that the family atmosphere contributes to recurrent psychosis and lengthy hospital stays for patients in the initial phase. Therefore, family interventions aimed at reducing psychological distress and improving expressed emotion in families during this critical time are very important. Modern research has yielded international evidence addressing these outcomes, but little is known about which interventions are the most effective. Therefore, this review aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of these interventions. The objective of this review was to examine the effectiveness of family interventions on psychological distress and expressed emotion in family members of persons with first-episode psychosis (FEP). Family members of persons with FEP and who had received treatment after being diagnosed within two years. Studies that examined interventions among family members of persons with FEP. Family interventions referred to any education, psychoeducation, communication, coping and problem-solving skills training and cognitive behavioral therapy that was provided to family members of persons with FEP. Psychological distress and expressed emotions of those family members. Randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental studies, cohort studies and case-control studies. The preliminary search was conducted in MEDLINE and CINAHL with keywords containing the title, abstract and subject description analysis as the first identification of related studies. An extensive search was conducted in other databases including ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, ScienceDirect, Scopus, PsychINFO, ThaiLIS and Thai National research databases. In addition, searches of reference lists and other manual searches were undertaken. Studies were critically appraised by two independent reviewers for methodological validity prior to inclusion in the review using standardized critical appraisal instruments from the Joanna Briggs Institute. Data were extracted using the standardized data extraction tools from the Joanna Briggs Institute. The mean score and standard deviation (SD) were extracted for targets outcomes relating to psychological distress and expressed emotion. Quantitative data could not be pooled due to the heterogeneity of the included studies. Data were synthesized based on the individual results from the three included studies and have been presented in a narrative format accompanied with tabulated data. Data synthesis of the three individual studies indicated that there were no statistically significant interventions that address psychological distress and expressed emotion in family members who live with and care for persons with FEP. There is insufficient evidence available to evaluate the effect sizes for pooled outcomes. Based on the results of this review, there is insufficient evidence to validate the effectiveness of family interventions on psychological distress and expressed emotion in family members who live with and care for persons with FEP. In addition, based on the individual primary studies, the implications for practice should be carefully considered.

Prior abstract publication: 2 A cross sectional, qualitative study. Community. Fourteen spinal cord injury survivors. Subjects participated in a semi-structured interview about 'when', 'where' 'by whom' and 'how' they received and 'would' prefer to receive bad news. Answers to 'how' questions were coded according to SPIKES protocol (Setting, Perception, Invitation, Knowledge, Empathizing, Summary). Eight participants (57%) reported that they received bad news from a physician, mostly during rehabilitation. All would prefer to be informed by a physician and majority preferred to be gradually informed during rehabilitation. Half were not satisfied with the content of information. Only half felt that his/her physiatrist understood his/her emotional distress. Majority of participants who received bad news from physicians reported that the setting was private and their family members accompanied them. Most spinal cord injury survivors were unsatisfied with knowledge and emotional support provided by rehabilitation physicians. Participants would prefer to receive bad news by a senior physiatrist in a planned meeting during rehabilitation.

Knowledge of how abstracts may be se-lected for medical conferences in an efficient and reliable manner is sparse. To improve abstract selection, the Danish Orthopaedic Society implemented the International Society of the Knee (ISK) quality-of-reporting system and visual analogue scale (VAS) scoring for abstract evaluation at its 2014 Annual Congress. We sought to find out if a simple VAS score was more reliable than a multiple-question system for assessment of over-all abstract quality. A total of 214 abstracts were submitted for review. All abstracts were reviewed by 3 reviewers using a VAS score and the ISK score. Of the 214, 71 abstracts were reviewed again 6 months later to estimate intra-rater agreement. The VAS and the ISK score were poorly correlated (r = 0.64), and the ISK score demonstrated a better intra- and interrater agreement (p < 0.001). The VAS scores of all abstracts were more widely distributed than the ISK scores, which clustered around values in the 50-70 range. Chronbach's alpha for the ISK score was 0.66 (95% confidence interval: 0.62-0.68). The VAS score has a poorer intra- and interrater agreement than the ISK score, and the two scores do not correlate well. VAS scores were more widely distributed, which is beneficial when selecting a scientific programme, but the score is unreliable. We continue to use the ISK score, although its reliability may still be improved. none. not relevant.

In the Western world, obesogenic diets containing high fat and high sugar (HFHS) are commonly consumed during pregnancy, although their effects on the metabolism of the mother, in relation to feto-placental glucose utilization and growth, are unknown. In the present study, the consumption of an obesogenic HFHS diet compromised maternal glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in late pregnancy in association with dysregulated lipid and glucose handling by the dam. These maternal metabolic changes induced by HFHS feeding were related to altered feto-placental glucose metabolism and growth. A HFHS diet during pregnancy therefore causes maternal metabolic dysfunction with consequences for maternal nutrient allocation for fetal growth. These findings have implications for the health of women and their infants, who consume obesogenic diets during pregnancy. In the Western world, obesogenic diets containing high fat and high sugar (HFHS) are commonly consumed during pregnancy. However, the impacts of a HFHS diet during pregnancy on maternal insulin sensitivity and signalling in relation to feto-placental growth and glucose utilization are unknown. The present study examined the effects of a HFHS diet during mouse pregnancy on maternal glucose tolerance and insulin resistance, as well as, on feto-placental glucose metabolism. Female mice were fed a control or HFHS diet from day (D) 1 of pregnancy (term = D20.5). At D16 or D19, dams were assessed for body composition, metabolite and hormone concentrations, tissue abundance of growth and metabolic signalling pathways, glucose tolerance and utilization and insulin sensitivity. HFHS feeding perturbed maternal insulin sensitivity in late pregnancy; hepatic insulin sensitivity was higher, whereas sensitivity of the skeletal muscle and white adipose tissue was lower in HFHS than control dams. These changes were accompanied by increased adiposity and reduced glucose production and glucose tolerance of HFHS dams. The HFHS diet also disturbed the hormone and metabolite milieu and altered expression of growth and metabolic signalling pathways in maternal tissues. Furthermore, HFHS feeding was associated with impaired feto-placental glucose metabolism and growth. A HFHS diet during pregnancy therefore causes maternal metabolic dysfunction with consequences for maternal nutrient allocation for fetal growth. These findings have implications for the health of women and their infants, who consume HFHS diets during pregnancy.

To describe fertility preservation (FP) utilization by transgender adolescents within a pediatric gender clinic between July 2013 and July 2016. A retrospective chart review was conducted to abstract demographic and clinical information among adolescents initiating gender-affirming hormones, including patient age at initial FP consultation, birth-assigned sex, race/ethnicity, and outcome of FP consultation. In our sample of 105 transgender adolescents, a total of 13 (seven transgender men and six transgender women) between the age of 14.2 and 20.6 years were seen in formal consultation for FP before initiating hormones. Of these adolescents, four completed sperm cryopreservation and one completed oocyte cryopreservation. Rates of FP utilization among transgender youth were low, which is consistent with a recently published report of FP utilization among transgender youth at another pediatric institution. Identified barriers to FP in our sample included cost, invasiveness of procedures, and desire not to delay medical transition.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Group suicidal behaviour can be devastating for all concerned. There is an absence of research on adolescent suicidal group behaviour. The perspectives of practitioners' experiences of these groups are largely lacking from research literature. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Practitioners work regularly with suicidal behaviour in adolescent peer groups. Practitioners identify peer relationships in groups as complex, including elements that are both suicide encouraging and preventing. Practitioners identify a range of ways in which young people become involved in suicidal behaviour in groups, including indirectly through risk taking and care-seeking as well as directly suicidal or self-harming. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Assessments of young people should routinely include a focus on the qualities of peer relations, including those in the online/digital realm. Assessments and interventions need to consider the complexity of group relationships and roles, and the multiplicity of factors that can contribute to suicidal behaviour in groups. Interventions that sustain therapeutic connectedness are helpful for taking dynamic/fluctuating risks into account. Introduction Group suicidal behaviour by young people can have harmful effects; it may be increasing, influenced by online media and reported increasing self-harm rates; new knowledge and understanding to inform interventions is required. Aim To explore how practitioners experience group suicidal behaviour amongst adolescents, how they assess risks/needs, and how these insights inform understanding about these groups. Method Ten practitioners, including Mental Health Nurses, were interviewed in one multidisciplinary CAMHS, in England. Data analysis was by Thematic Analysis (Braun & Clarke 2006). Results Participants described frequently working with suicidal groups. Roles in groups include suicide encouraging and preventing. Practitioners identify risky and protective connections between young people, online and offline. Clinical tensions include living with suicidal risks, emotional and positional challenges, and getting to grips with digital media. Discussion Peer groups appear to have a larger role in adolescent suicide than recognized to date. Practitioners need to assess young people's roles in groups, their diverse motivations and to understand constantly changing digital media. Implications for practice Assessments of suicide risk for young people should routinely include focus on peer relations including the online/digital realm. Maintaining relationships with vulnerable young people facilitates managing fluctuating risks and understanding different group dynamics.

Given the overall safety profile and increasing availability of medical pregnancy termination drugs, we asked: would the mifepristone-misoprostol regimen for medical termination at ≤10 weeks of gestation meet US Food and Drug Administration regulatory criteria for over-the-counter (OTC) approval, and if not, what are the present research gaps? We conducted a literature review of consumer behaviours necessary for a successful OTC application for medical termination at ≤10 weeks of gestation and identified crucial research gaps. If we were to embark on a development programme for OTC or more generally, self-use of medical termination, the critical elements missing are the label comprehension, self-selection and actual use studies. Considering medical pregnancy termination through the over-the-counter regulatory lens clarifies critical evidence gaps.

Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is a cornerstone of secondary prevention of ischemic heart disease. It is critically important in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), where the burden of ischemic heart disease is substantial and growing. However, the availability and utilization of CR in LMIC is not systematically known. This study sought to characterize the availability, use, and barriers to the use of CR. Electronic databases (Cochrane Library, EMBASE, PubMed, Web of Science) were searched from January 1, 1980 to May 31, 2013 for articles on CR in LMIC. Citations on availability, use, and/or barriers to CR were screened for inclusion by title, abstract, and full text. Data were summarized by region or country to determine the characteristics of CR in LMIC and gaps in the peer-reviewed biomedical publications. Our search yielded a total of 5,805 citations, of which 34 satisfied full inclusion and exclusion criteria. The total number of CR programs available ranged from 1 in Algeria and Paraguay to 51 in Serbia. Referral rates for CR ranged from 5.0% in Mexico to 90.3% in Lithuania. Attendance rates ranged from 31.7% in Bulgaria to 95.6% in Lithuania, and CR attendance was correlated with higher educational background. The most commonly cited barrier to CR in LMIC was lack of physician referral. Our results illustrate that the published reports reflects heterogeneity of CR availability and use in LMIC. Overall, CR is insufficiently available and underutilized. Further characterization of CR in LMIC, especially in Asia and Africa, is necessary to develop targeted strategies to improve availability and utilization. Patient, physician, and systems factors must be addressed to overcome barriers to participation in CR in LMIC.

To investigate changes in maternity and neonatal unit policies towards extremely preterm infants (EPTIs) between 2003 and 2012, and concurrent trends in their mortality and morbidity in ten European regions. Population-based cohort studies in 2003 (MOSAIC study) and 2011/2012 (EPICE study) and questionnaires from hospitals. 70 hospitals in ten European regions. Infants born at <27 weeks of gestational age (GA) in hospitals participating in both the MOSAIC and EPICE studies (1240 in 2003, 1293 in 2011/2012). We used McNemar's Chi Reported policies, mortality and morbidity of EPTIs. The lowest GA at which maternity units reported performing a caesarean section for acute distress of a singleton non-malformed fetus decreased from an average of 24.7 to 24.1 weeks (P < 0.01) when parents were in favour of active management, and 26.1 to 25.2 weeks (P = 0.01) when parents were against. Units reported that neonatologists were called more often for spontaneous deliveries starting at 22 weeks GA in 2012 and more often made decisions about active resuscitation alone, rather than in multidisciplinary teams. In-hospital mortality after live birth for EPTIs decreased from 50% to 42% (P < 0.01). Units reporting more active management in 2012 than 2003 had higher mortality in 2003 (55% versus 43%; P < 0.01) and experienced larger declines (55 to 44%; P < 0.001) than units where policies stayed the same (43 to 37%; P = 0.1). European hospitals reporting changes in management policies experienced larger survival gains for EPTIs. Changes in reported policies for management of extremely preterm births were related to mortality declines.

Estimating the national prevalence of child sexual abuse (CSA) and its association with health and developmental outcomes is the first step in developing prevention strategies. While such data are available from many countries, less is known about the epidemiology of CSA in Japan. For this systematic review, we searched English databases: Embase, Ovid MEDLINE(R) In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE(R) Daily and Ovid MEDLINE(R), Ovid OLDMEDLINE(R), PsycINFO, and Japanese databases: Cinii, J-Stage, Children's Rainbow Center Japan, Japan Child and Family Research Institute, Japanese Journal of Child Abuse and Neglect to identify articles published before July 2015 examining the lifetime prevalence of CSA in Japan using non-clinical samples. Data were extracted from published reports. We initially identified 606 citations and after abstract review, retrieved 120 publications. Six studies that met the selection criteria and additional two relevant studies were reviewed. The range of contact CSA for females was 10.4%-60.7%, and the prevalence of this type of CSA for males was 4.1%. The range of penetrative CSA for females was 1.3%-8.3% and that for males was 0.5%-1.3%. A number of methodological issues were identified, including a lack of validated measures of CSA, and low response rates. In contrast to a lower prevalence of penetrative CSA, the prevalence of contact CSA among Japanese females may be comparable or higher in relation to international estimates. Future research on children's perceptions of and exposure to sexual abuse, crime and exploitation in Japan is discussed.

The interest in children's eating behaviours and how to change them has been growing in recent years. This review examines the following questions: What strategies have been used to change children's eating behaviours? Have their effects been experimentally demonstrated? And, are the effects transient or enduring? Medline and Cab abstract (Ovid) and Web of Science (Thomson Reuters) were used to identify the experimental studies. A total of 120 experimental studies were identified and they are presented grouped within these 11 topics; parental control, reward, social facilitation, cooking programs, school gardens, sensory education, availability and accessibility, choice architecture and nudging, branding and food packaging, preparation and serving style, and offering a choice. In conclusion, controlling strategies for changing children's eating behaviour in a positive direction appear to be counterproductive. Hands-on approaches such as gardening and cooking programs may encourage greater vegetable consumption and may have a larger effect compared to nutrition education. Providing children with free, accessible fruits and vegetables have been experimentally shown to positively affect long-term eating behaviour. The authors recommend future research to examine how taste and palatability can positively affect children's attitudes and eating behaviour.

The present research examines the influence of intuitive cognitive domain and religion on the God concepts of children growing up in religious traditions that present God in ways varying from abstract to concrete. In Study 1, we compared children from a Latter-Day Saints (LDS) background with those from mainstream Christian (MC) backgrounds in the United States. In contrast to MC theology that holds that God is all-knowing, all-powerful, and disembodied, LDS theology depicts God as embodied. In Study 1, 3- to 7-year-olds from LDS and MC backgrounds were asked about supernatural mental and immaterial attributes of God, a ghost, a dad, and a bug. In Study 2, children ages 3-7 from Muslim and Catholic backgrounds in Indonesia were presented with a variant of Study 1. Taken together, the two studies examine the God concepts of children raised in three different religious traditions with God concepts that range from highly abstract to concrete. Overall, we find that the youngest children, regardless of religion, distinguish God from humans and hold similar ideas of God, attributing more supernatural psychological than physical properties. Older children's conceptions of God are more in line with the theological notions of their traditions. The results suggest that children are not simply anthropomorphic in their God concepts, but early on understand supernatural agents as having special mental properties and they continue to learn about differences between agents, influenced by their religious traditions. Statement of contribution What is already known on this subject Research on children's God concepts has established that children begin to distinguish the mind of God from that of humans by around age 4-5. The main debate in the field is whether children start out thinking about God in anthropomorphic terms or whether they start out with an undifferentiated idea of agents' minds as all having access to knowledge. Research on children's understanding of immortality has demonstrated that around the same age that children begin differentiating God's mind from human minds, they also differentiate between the two in terms of life-cycle attributes, attributing immortality to God, but not to humans. What does this study add? The present research contributes to the field by examining the God concepts of children from different religious backgrounds. These religious backgrounds have theologies with God concepts that range from physically concrete (Latter-Day Saints or Mormonism) to highly abstract (Islam). We also include Christian samples for comparison. The present research examines children's attributions to different supernatural agents including God, but also a ghost and an angel. The present studies look at children's attribution of not only supernatural mental attributions, but also the supernatural physical attributions of immateriality and omnipresence that have been understudied.

The aim of this paper is to describe how Polish print news media frame relations between genetics and human behaviors and what images of behavioral genetics dominate in press discourse. A content and frame analysis of 72 print news articles about behavioral genetics published between 2000 and 2014 in four major Polish weekly magazines: "Polityka", "Wprost", "Newsweek" and "Przekrój" was conducted. Twenty one different behaviors were mentioned in the sample and six major analytic frames were identified: essentialist, materialistic, deterministic, probabilistic, optimistic and pessimistic. The most common was the tendency to describe human behaviors in terms of genetic essentialism, reductionism and determinism, as almost one half of the articles was focused solely on genetic determinants of human behaviors and lacked any reference to polygenetic and/or environmental conditioning. Although most of the articles were balanced in tone, benefits were stressed more often than potential risks. Stories that confirmed existence of genetic determinants of human behavior were favored over those that did not. One third of the articles stressed the social or ethical consequences of the development of behavioral genetics. The complex and abstract character of genetic knowledge results in a simplistic portrayal of behavioral genetics in the press, which may lead to a misunderstood interpretation of the complicated interplay between behavior, genetics and environment by the public. Consequently, print news media contribute to geneticization of behaviors. It is important to improve the quality of science reporting on behavioral genetics and to educate researchers how to communicate with the media more effectively.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: 'Expertise by experience' has become an increasingly valued element of service design and delivery by mental health service providers. The extent and influence of mental health professionals' personal experience of mental ill health on clinical practice has seldom been interrogated in depth. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We investigate how mental health nurses' own personal experience of mental ill health informs their mental health nursing practice with particular reference to direct work with service users. Participants said that personal experience could impact on work in three positive ways: to develop their relationship with service users, to enhance their understanding of service users and as a motivation for potential mental health nurses to join the profession. This study moves the discussion of the state of mental health nurses' mental health further towards the recovery and well-being focus of contemporary mental health care, where 'expertise by experience' is highly valued. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: We must address the taboo of disclosure within clinical nursing practice and debate the extent to which personal and professional boundaries are negotiated during clinical encounters. Introduction 'Expertise by experience' is a highly valued element of service delivery in recovery-oriented mental health care, but is unacknowledged within the mental health nursing literature. Aim To explore the extent and influence of mental health professionals' personal experience of mental ill health on clinical practice. Method Twenty-seven mental health nurses with their own personal experience of mental ill health were interviewed about how their personal experience informed their mental health nursing practice, as part of a sequential mixed methods study. Results The influence of personal experience in nursing work was threefold: first, through overt disclosure; second, through the 'use of the self as a tool'; and third, through the formation of professional nursing identity. Discussion Mental health nurses' experience of mental illness was contextualized by other life experiences and by particular therapeutic relationships and clinical settings. In previous empirical studies, nurses have cited personal experience of mental illness as a motivator and an aspect of their identity. In this study, there was also an association between personal experience and enhanced nursing expertise. Implications for practice If drawing on personal experience is commonplace, then we must address the taboo of disclosure and debate the extent to which personal and professional boundaries are negotiated during clinical encounters.

Access to quality and timely emergency and essential surgical care and anesthesia (EESCA) is an integral component of the right to health as reinforced by the ratification of the World Health Assembly Resolution 68.15. However, this resolution is merely a guideline and has not been able to bolster the necessary political will to promote EESCA. Our objective was to evaluate international treaties, which carry legal obligations, for EESCA-related text, and develop a human rights-based framework to support EESCA advancement and advocacy. We conducted a comprehensive review of all the UN Treaty Collection-Certified True Copies (CTCs) of multilateral treaties database from December 2015 to April 2016. The relevant text was manually searched to abstract and analyze to identify major themes supporting a human rights-based approach to EESCA. Multiple treaties in the UN database addressed EESCA in the areas of human rights, refugees and stateless persons, health, penal matters, and disarmament. A total of 13 treaties containing 23 articles had language that endorsed aspects of EESCA. The three major themes, supported by the phraseology in the treaties, included: (1) equal access to EESCA (eight articles); (2) timely care of injured and those with emergency surgical conditions (eight articles); and (3) protection, rehabilitation, psychosocial support, and social security (seven articles). A number of United Nations multilateral treaties support available and equitable EESCA. These findings can be used to galvanize support and encourage signatory Member States to promote and implement EESCA development initiatives.

Within western cultures, portrayals of dementia as 'a living death' are being challenged by people living with the diagnosis. Yet dementia remains one of the most feared conditions. The sociological lens of citizenship provides a conceptual framework for reviewing the role of society and culture in repositioning dementia away from deficit to a discourse of agency and interdependence. Awareness of cognitive change, and engaging with the diagnostic process, moves people into a transitional, or 'liminal' state of uncertainty. They are no longer able to return to their previous status, but may resist the unwanted status of 'person with dementia'. Drawing on qualitative studies on social participation by people with dementia, we suggest that whether people are able to move beyond the liminal phase depends on acceptance of the diagnosis, social capital, personal and cultural beliefs, the responses of others and comorbidities. Some people publicly embrace a new identity whereas others withdraw, or are withdrawn, from society to live in the shadow of the fourth age. We suggest narratives of deficit fail to reflect the agency people with dementia can enact to shape their social worlds in ways which enable them to establish post-liminal citizen roles. (A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA).

To estimate risk of parental cardiovascular disease mortality by offspring birthweight. Population-based cohort study. Norwegian mothers and fathers with singleton births during 1967-2002 were followed until 2009 by linkage to the Norwegian cause of death registry. Hazard ratios by offspring absolute birthweight in grams and birthweight adjusted for gestational age (z-score) were calculated using Cox regression and adjusted for parental age at delivery and year of first birth. Stratified analyses on preterm and term births were performed. Maternal and paternal cardiovascular mortality. We followed 711 726 mothers and 700 212 fathers and found a strong link between maternal cardiovascular mortality and offspring birthweight but only slight evidence of associations in fathers. Adjusting birthweight for gestational age (by z-score) uncovered an unexpected strong association of large birthweight (z-score > 2.5) with mothers' cardiovascular mortality (hazard ratio 3.0, 95% CI 2.0-4.6). This risk was apparently restricted to preterm births. In stratified analyses (preterm and term births) hazard ratios for maternal cardiovascular mortality were 1.5 (1.03-2.2) for large preterm babies and 0.9 (0.7-1.2) for large term babies (P-value for interaction = 0.02), using normal weight preterm and term, respectively, as references. Women having large preterm babies are at increased risk of both diabetes and cardiovascular mortality. The birth of a large preterm baby should increase clinical vigilance for onset of diabetes and other cardiovascular disease risk factors. Birth of a large preterm baby should increase vigilance for cardiovascular-disease risk factors.

This article demonstrates the relevance of animals to medical sociology by arguing that pet owners' accounts of veterinary decision-making can highlight key sociological themes which are important to both human and animal health. Based on semi-structured interviews, the article argues that interspecies 'kinship' allows for the extension of sociological claims regarding altruism, self-interest and mutuality from human blood donation to companion animal blood 'donation'. Furthermore, this study extends sociological understanding of the human-animal bond by showing how the dog's status as kin meant they were expected to donate blood, and that the act of donation itself represents an important opportunity for family 'display'. However, owners who do not or cannot donate blood themselves describe pet blood donation as an opportunity to lessen associated feelings of guilt or obligation through 'doing good by proxy'. These findings raise critical sociological and ethical questions concerning the risks and benefits of donation, and for how we understand third-party decision making. Finally, the article argues for the close entanglement of human and animal health, and concludes that sociologists of health and medicine should explore the radical possibility that decision-making in healthcare more generally might be influenced by experiences at the veterinary clinic, and vice versa. (A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA).

To facilitate informed consent, consent forms should use language below the grade eight level. Research Ethics Boards (REBs) provide consent form templates to facilitate this goal. Templates with inappropriate language could promote consent forms that participants find difficult to understand. However, a linguistic analysis of templates is lacking. We reviewed the websites of 124 REBs for their templates. These included English language medical school REBs in Australia/New Zealand (n = 23), Canada (n = 14), South Africa (n = 8), the United Kingdom (n = 34), and a geographically-stratified sample from the United States (n = 45). Template language was analyzed using Coh-Metrix linguistic software (v.3.0, Memphis, USA). We evaluated the proportion of REBs with five key linguistic outcomes at or below grade eight. Additionally, we compared quantitative readability to the REBs' own readability standards. To determine if the template's country of origin or the presence of a local REB readability standard influenced the linguistic variables, we used a MANOVA model. Of the REBs who provided templates, 0/94 (0%, 95% CI = 0-3.9%) provided templates with all linguistic variables at or below the grade eight level. Relaxing the standard to a grade 12 level did not increase this proportion. Further, only 2/22 (9.1%, 95% CI = 2.5-27.8) REBs met their own readability standard. The country of origin (DF = 20, 177.5, F = 1.97, p = 0.01), but not the presence of an REB-specific standard (DF = 5, 84, F = 0.73, p = 0.60), influenced the linguistic variables. Inappropriate language in templates is an international problem. Templates use words that are long, abstract, and unfamiliar. This could undermine the validity of participant informed consent. REBs should set a policy of screening templates with linguistic software.

Understanding how the public perceives uncertainty in scientific research is fundamental for effective communication about research and its inevitable uncertainty. Previous work found that scientific evidence differentially influenced beliefs from individuals with different political ideologies. Evidence that threatens an individual's political ideology is perceived as more uncertain than nonthreatening evidence. The authors present 3 studies examining perceptions of scientific uncertainty more broadly by including sciences that are not politically polarizing. Study 1 develops scales measuring perceptions of scientific uncertainty. It finds (a) 3 perceptual dimensions of scientific uncertainty, with the primary dimension representing a perception of precision; (b) the precision dimension of uncertainty is strongly associated with the perceived value of a research field; and (c) differences in perceived uncertainty across political affiliations. Study 2 manipulated these dimensions, finding that Republicans were more sensitive than Democrats to descriptions of uncertainty associated with a research field (e.g., psychology). Study 3 found that these views of a research field did not extend to the evaluation of individual results produced by the field. Together, these studies show that perceptions of scientific uncertainty associated with entire research fields are valid predictors of abstract perceptions of scientific quality, benefit, and allocation of funding. Yet, they do not inform judgments about individual results. Therefore, polarization in the acceptance of specific results is not likely due to individual differences in perceived scientific uncertainty. Further, the direction of influence potentially could be reversed, such that perceived quality of scientific results could be used to influence perceptions about scientific research fields. (PsycINFO Database Record

Introduction Earthquake-related trauma results in crush injuries and bony- and soft-tissue trauma. There are no systematic reviews analyzing the typical injury patterns and treatments in "Mega-Mass-Casualty" earthquakes. The characterization of an injury pattern specific to disaster type, be it natural or manmade, is imperative to build an effective disaster preparedness and response system. The systematic review was conducted in accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA). A comprehensive search strategy was developed to identify all publications relating to earthquakes and the orthopedic treatment in adult patients. The following databases were searched: PubMed (Medline; US National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health; Bethesda, Maryland USA), Ovid (Ovid Technologies; New York, New York USA), Web of Science (Thomson Reuters; New York, New York USA), and The Cochrane Library (The Cochrane Collaboration; Oxford, United Kingdom). The searches identified 4,704 articles: 4,445 after duplicates were removed. The papers were screened for title and abstract and 65 out of those were selected for full-text analysis. The quality of data does not permit a standard-of-care (SOC) to be defined. Scarcity and poor quality of the data collected also may suggest a low level of accountability of the activity of the international hospital teams. Qualitatively, it is possible to define that there are more open fractures during daytime hours than at night. Excluding data about open and closed fractures, for all types of injuries, the results underline that the higher the impact of the earthquake, as measured by Richter Magnitude Scale (RMS), the higher is the number of injuries. Discussion Regarding orthopedic injuries during earthquakes, special attention must be paid to the management of the lower limbs most frequently injured. Spinal cord involvement following spine fractures is an important issue: this underlines how a neurosurgeon on a disaster team could be an important asset during the response. Conservative treatment for fractures, when possible, should be encouraged in a disaster setting. Regarding amputation, it is important to underline how the response and the quality of health care delivered is different from one team to another. This study shows how important it is to improve, and to require, the accountability of international disaster teams in terms of type and quality of health care delivered, and to standardize the data collection. Bortolin M , Morelli I , Voskanyan A , Joyce NR , Ciottone GR . Earthquake-related orthopedic injuries in adult population: a systematic review. Prehosp Disaster Med. 2017;32(2):201-208.

Bourdieu is an important thinker within the sociological tradition and has a philosophically sophisticated approach to theoretical knowledge and research practice. In this paper, we examine the implication of his work for nursing and the health sciences more broadly. We argue that his work is best described as a reflexive realist who provides a space for a nonpositivist approach to knowledge that does not fall into the trap of idealism or relativism. We emphasize that Bourdieu was not an abstract theorist, but only utilized theories to understand and explain the social world in all its empirical complexity. Theory is emphasized over method without denying the importance of method. We then provide a brief overview of some of his key concepts: habitus, field and capital. His work is a scientifically astute practice that has an emancipatory purpose, with particular resonance to the problems of nursing as a social practice. Some have criticized Bourdieu for undermining agency and we briefly address this issue, but argue that his conceptual framework helps us to understand what endures in social practice and why change is often problematic. In short, this paper argues that Bourdieu's work is a fruitful resource for critiquing existing nursing approaches that are preoccupied with agency over structure.

[No Avaliable Abstract].

The provision of workplace accommodations is a proven strategy in supporting individuals with disabilities at work. Accommodations include a wide range of supports and strategies that are not very well defined beyond the Americans with Disabilities Act in the United States. Understanding the landscape of accommodations is important to measure the impact of programs that support employment of individuals with disabilities. To conduct a scoping review and thematic analysis of research literature to identify how workplace accommodations are operationalized and to identify knowledge gaps in its conceptualization. Keywords searches were conducted in seven electronic databases. Title, abstract, and full text screening was conducted followed by a thematic analysis of the content to identify how workplace accommodations are operationalized. Overall, 47 studies were selected for review. 433 different types of accommodations were identified, of which assistive technology and specialized equipment represented the most frequently reported type of accommodation (40%). A very small percentage of studies included policy changes (9%) and human assistance (5%) as an accommodation strategy. This scoping review aims to clarify how accommodations are operationalized in the research literature. Key knowledge gaps identified include the systematic exclusion of certain types of supports or disability types.

There is evidence showing that marital status (MS) and marital disruption (i.e., separation, divorce, and being widowed) are associated with poor physical health outcomes, including for all-cause mortality. We checked for the available evidence on the association between MS and cardiovascular (CV) diseases, outcomes, and CV risk factors. A search across the PubMed database of all articles, including the term "marital status" in their title, was performed. All articles were then manually checked for the presence of the following terms or topic: CV diseases, acute myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome, coronary artery disease, cardiac arrest, heart failure, heart diseases, and CV mortality. Moreover, other search terms were: CV risk factors, hypertension, cholesterol, obesity, smoking, alcohol, fitness and/or physical activity, and health. Systematic reviews, meta-analyses, controlled trials, cohort studies, and case-control studies were potentially considered pertinent for inclusion. Case reports, comments, discussion letters, abstracts of scientific conferences, articles in other than English language, and conference abstracts or proceedings were excluded. In total, 817 references containing the title words "marital status" were found. After elimination of articles dealing with other topics, 70 records were considered pertinent. Twenty-two were eliminated for several reasons, such as old articles, no abstract, full text unavailable, other than English language, comments, and letters. Out of the remaining 48 articles, 13 were suitable for the discussion, and 35 (accounting for 1,245,967 subjects) were included in this study. Most studies showed better outcomes for married persons, and men who were single generally had the poorest results. Moreover, being married was associated with lower risk factors and better health status, even in the presence of many confounding effects.

The objective of this study was to investigate the incidence of plagiarism in a sample of manuscripts submitted to the AJR using CrossCheck, develop an algorithm to identify significant plagiarism, and formulate management pathways. A sample of 110 of 1610 (6.8%) manuscripts submitted to AJR in 2014 in the categories of Original Research or Review were analyzed using CrossCheck and manual assessment. The overall similarity index (OSI), highest similarity score from a single source, whether duplication was from single or multiple origins, journal section, and presence or absence of referencing the source were recorded. The criteria outlined by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors were the reference standard for identifying manuscripts containing plagiarism. Statistical analysis was used to develop a screening algorithm to maximize sensitivity and specificity for the detection of plagiarism. Criteria for defining the severity of plagiarism and management pathways based on the severity of the plagiarism were determined. Twelve manuscripts (10.9%) contained plagiarism. Nine had an OSI excluding quotations and references of less than 20%. In seven, the highest similarity score from a single source was less than 10%. The highest similarity score from a single source was the work of the same author or authors in nine. Common sections for duplication were the Materials and Methods, Discussion, and abstract. Referencing the original source was lacking in 11. Plagiarism was undetected at submission in five of these 12 articles; two had been accepted for publication. The most effective screening algorithm was to average the OSI including quotations and references and the highest similarity score from a single source and to submit manuscripts with an average value of more than 12% for further review. The current methods for detecting plagiarism are suboptimal. A new screening algorithm is proposed.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: In the UK and internationally, the number of looked after children is increasing year on year. Mental health problems among looked after children are significantly higher than in the general population, and the uptake of mental health services for these children is low. There is a poor prognosis for children with untreated mental health problems; this is further compounded if the child is within the care system. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study adds to our understanding of foster carers' experiences of the mental health needs of looked after children and demonstrates some of the challenges associated with accessing appropriate and timely mental health services. New knowledge derived from this research is that the barriers to accessing Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) are not at the time of initial referral as previously reported, but later, once within the mental health system with long waiting times experienced particularly for specialist services. This study provides new insights into the experience of being a foster carer and the levels of support and resources needed that directly relate to the viability of the placement. The majority of the foster carers interviewed were from a Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) background, previously under-represented in this research area. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: A number of areas in current CAMHS provision need addressing with a focus on accessibility, consultation and support for foster carers. Waiting times need to be addressed, and improved communication with other agencies is also highlighted. CAMHS nurses are well placed to develop and deliver a comprehensive care package to foster carers, offering more tailored support to them whilst enabling the children and young people in their care to access and engage more effectively with mental health services. Introduction Despite well-documented vulnerabilities to mental health problems among the increasing population of looked after children, there continues to be poor uptake and utilization of Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS). Aim To elicit views of foster carers regarding the mental health needs of children and adolescents in their care and their experiences of accessing mental health services. Methods A grounded theory approach and semistructured interviews with ten foster carers. Results The experience of being a foster carer was the core category, with three major themes: (1) foster carers' psychological understanding of challenging behaviour; (2) barriers to accessing CAMHS; (3) the importance of support. Discussion A key finding of this research is that barriers to accessing CAMHS were not experienced at the point of referral, but once within the mental health system. The foster carers demonstrated a proactive approach to accessing services but expressed a need for more support structures related directly to the viability of the placement. Implications for practice Mental health nurses have a pivotal role in providing a more responsive and needs-led service for this population; professional support to foster carers to include facilitating peer support; and clinical interventions for the looked after children.

Organoleptic properties, and more specifically chemosensory cues, have been shown to guide therapeutic applications of medicinal plants. Humoral qualities, on the other hand, are widely believed to be an abstract concept, mainly applied post hoc to validate therapy. However, the nexus between humoral qualities, chemosensory properties, and medicinal plant uses has never been systematically assessed. To systematically analyse the correlations between chemosensory properties, humoral qualities, and medicinal uses of selected botanical drugs. The issue was approached experimentally via an organoleptic testing panel, consisting of Zoque healers in Chiapas, Mexico. The healers smelled and tasted 71 selected herbal drugs and subsequently commented on their humoral qualities and therapeutic uses. The resulting dataset is analysed for correlations between these variables using Bayesian statistics. Qualitative data on the characteristics and role of the hot-cold dichotomy complement the quantitative analysis, facilitating meaningful interpretation. The results reproduce and extend the findings of previous studies, which established specific correlations between chemosensory cues and nosological units. The key predictors of drugs' therapeutic uses, however, are their humoral qualities, which are themselves conditioned by taste and smell. These findings appear to be valid for drug samples known to the participants as well as for unfamiliar samples. Thus, this study establishes the role of the hot-cold dichotomy as an important cultural filter connecting organoleptic properties and therapeutic uses of herbal drugs. There is considerable cross-cultural consensus in Mesoamerica for the specific correlations described in this study. Given the continued pervasiveness of the hot-cold dichotomy, humoral qualities and the underlying organoleptic properties ought to be increasingly considered in the design of pharmaceutical products as well as public health strategies. Such culturally appropriate adjustments may considerably improve the perceived quality and effectiveness of healthcare.

the worldwide number of dementia cases is increasing, and this is a trend that is expected to continue as a growing proportion of the population ages. However, conducting research with persons suffering from dementia can be fraught due to fears surrounding research risks in vulnerable populations. This can make seeking approval for studies difficult. As research directly involving persons with dementia is key for the development of evidence-based best practice, the development of a coherent ethical strategy to perform such research feasibly and effectively is of paramount importance. this paper aims to review and synthesise ethical challenges in performing research with persons who have dementia. in undertaking a systematic review of the current research literature, we will identify the central issues and arguments characterising research that concerns the ethical dimensions of research participation in the dementia population. Data were analysed using both inductive and deductive content analysis. Ethical considerations in research involving persons with dementia primarily concern the representation of the interests of the person with dementia and protection of their vulnerabilities and rights. a total of 2,894 results were returned from initial searches, following deduplication. In total, 2,458 were excluded at title review, and following abstract review 158 papers remained; 29 papers were included for analysis after full paper review and data extraction. Papers ranged between 1995 and 2013. this review has highlighted a lack of consensus in current research and guidelines addressing these concerns; a clear stance on ethical governance of studies is important for future research and best evidence-based practice in dementia.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Current policy advocates for the participation of family carers in care planning. Caring for a person with a mental illness requires a significant commitment from families to support their relative's recovery. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The evidence of family involvement in care planning is generally fraught with conflicting experiences related to different requirements between mental health professionals, families and service users. Confidentiality remains contentious at a practice level in terms of information sharing and decision-making. There is a requirement and need for a shared understanding around care planning between families and mental health professionals. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The provision of written information pertaining to families regarding confidentiality is required at service level. Educational workshops concerning care planning and treatment options should be provided for service users, families and mental health professionals. Further research into effective service-wide strategies that explore with families how their engagement can be positively fostered in mental health services is warranted. Introduction Mental health service policy stipulates that family carers be involved in care planning. Aim To identify families' experiences of care planning involvement in adult mental health services. Method An integrative review where electronic databases and grey literature were searched for papers published between 01 January 2005 and 10 February 2016. Results Fifteen papers met the inclusion criteria. Thematic analysis generated three themes: (1) families' experience of collaboration, (2) families' perceptions of professionals and (3) families' impressions of the care planning process. Collaborative decision-making is not regularly experienced by families with an 'us' and 'them' divide, perpetuated by a lack of communication, confidentiality constraints and a claim of 'insider knowledge' of service users. When involved, families perceive care planning to be uncoordinated and that their lived experiences are not always appreciated. Discussion Families need to be valued, empowered and engaged in care planning and the partnership distance be addressed. Accommodating the views of family, service user and professionals is preferable but not always possible. Our findings suggest that the key element for professionals is to value all 'insider knowledge' where possible. Implications for Practice Services should develop written information on confidentiality for families and facilitate open communication concerning their involvement in care planning.

What do you say to a child who rarely speaks? How do you work with such a youngster? What are the sine qua nons or guiding principles upon which analysts can draw? And, how do we know if we are being helpful? Sam was 9-years when I began treating him. He was extremely withdrawn and rarely spoke more than a few words. Instead, he mainly played chess. I did not know at first whether Sam's taciturn demeanor was due to shyness, limited verbal abilities, or the stultifying effects of trauma. Fortuitously, during one of many seemingly "innocent" games of chess, Sam happened to make a bold move, to which I admiringly remarked, "What a move, you're killing me." His surprising reaction permanently altered the trajectory of treatment. Curiously, upon returning from summer vacation, not only did Sam no longer need to play chess, but he also found his voice. It was then that he began to discuss things for the first time. Initially, what he said was cloaked in symbolic and indirect referents, suggesting that there were things about which he still could not speak. I proceeded with patience and eventually Sam was able to disclose what he had been harboring inside. In this article, I will discuss the role and psychoanalytic meaning of chess in Sam's play therapy and how it served as a means of symbolically expressing an unspoken, yet ongoing trauma; how it non-verbally, and thus safely communicated Sam's desperate need for understanding and his urgent (but silent) disguised plea for help.

Socioeconomic position (SEP) is a well-known risk indicator for chronic periodontitis. However, it is still unclear how SEP during the life course influences periodontal outcomes in adulthood. This study aimed to systematically review longitudinal studies investigating the influence of individual-level SEP during the life course on subsequent periodontitis in adulthood. Inclusion criteria were epidemiological longitudinal observational studies, in which indicators of relative SEP were assessed prior to clinical assessment of periodontitis. Six electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, Scopus, Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) and ScieLO) were searched. The methodological quality of the studies was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale (NOS). The search identified 1720 papers. After removal of duplicates (n=697), title and abstract screening (n=996), and full-text review (n=19), eight original manuscripts from seven studies were finally included. Sample sizes ranged from 167 to 2806, and the follow-up time from exposure to outcome ranged from 2 to 28 years. Studies evaluated education, occupation or income as SEP indicators. Prevalence, extent and severity of periodontal attachment loss, probing pocket depth and alveolar bone loss were the studied outcomes. Based on NOS, studies presented low risk of bias. Six of eight papers reported that relatively low SEP earlier in life was associated with poorer periodontal health in adulthood. The available scientific evidence demonstrates potential longitudinal impact of earlier lower SEP on later periodontal health. The findings were consistent despite differences in study methods.

No abstract available.

This is an invited commentary article, and so no abstract is required. By way of a brief description, this article shares promising efforts, strategies and approaches in effectively and culturally supporting Native communities in promoting the health of their children through movement, the connection to their land, language, culture and traditional knowledge.

Over the last 20 years, a paternalistic view in health care has been losing ground. The question about less asymmetrical positions in the healthcare professional-patient relationship is, for example, being addressed by the increased emphasis on person-centred care, promoted in disciplines such as medicine and nursing. Partnership is considered as a key component in person-centred care. Although the previous studies have addressed the attributes inherent in partnership, there is still potential for further discussion on how the various interpretations of partnership influence their use in healthcare literature. A vague understanding might also affect education and evaluation. As we see it, the philosophical underpinnings of the idea of partnership have not been sufficiently explored and discussed. The study reveals that partnership originates in the term "partener" defined as a relationship between individuals or groups characterized by cooperation and responsibility. Etymologically speaking, partnership is hence bound by a contract, which in this study is discussed in the frame of Rawls' contract theory, which in turn intersects with Benhabib and her distinction between "the abstract" and "the concrete Other." Further, the expression "equal partnership," which often appears in the context of person-centredness, is explored in relation to the philosophies of Rawls and Benhabib. The opportunity for partnership, as well as the risk of partnership becoming a tempting magnet with a vague and imprecise meaning, is discussed. Without exploration, reflection and discussion of the philosophical underpinnings, partnership carries a substantial risk of becoming an indistinct idea used in health care.

Although the increased interest in investigating the dynamics of fatherhood in developed nations has been documented in the literature, its collective meaning and implications in nursing remain largely unknown in the context of East Asia, especially in developing countries such as the Philippines. Capitalizing on the unique power of metaphors to improve the understanding of complex and abstract ideas and to shape healthcare practices, this qualitative semiotic investigation intended to define the essence of fatherhood from the perspective of Filipino fathers. This study focused on a group of 28 first-time and 22 second-time fathers who were recruited from the largest maternal and newborn tertiary government hospital in the Philippines. To capture the richness and thickness of fatherhood as a subjective human reality, doodling and elicitation interviews were employed to promote data triangulation. Furthermore, semiosis was used as the data analytic framework to better understand the ontology and epistemology of the elicited metaphors. In addition, a member-checking procedure was employed to validate the themes that emerged from the inductive approach. This study provides a conceptualization of "The House of Fatherhood," which illustrates the uniqueness of the experience of fatherhood as identity defining, maturity enabling, and duality affirming. The pillars of fatherhood that were identified in this article provide a valuable framework for Filipino healthcare providers and program administrators in the field of maternal and child nursing to identify scaffolding measures and other support mechanisms to address the needs and concerns of Filipino fathers and their journey to fatherhood in a more effective and holistic way.

Arab American women are an ethnic minority and immigrant population in the United States with unique and nuanced sociocultural factors that influence preventive health behaviors. The aims of this article are to evaluate and synthesize the existing evidence on cervical cancer screening behaviors, as well as determine factors that influence these behaviors, among Arab American women.. Extensive literature searches were performed using PubMed, CINAHL®, Scopus, Embase, and Cochrane databases; articles published through October 2015 were sought. . Of 17 articles, 14 explicitly identified Arab and/or Muslim women and cervical cancer screening in either the title or the abstract; the remaining three focused on cancer attitudes and behaviors in Arab Americans in general but measured cervical cancer screening. Eleven articles reported different aspects of one intervention. Because of methodologic heterogeneity, the current authors synthesized results narratively.. Key factors influencing cervical cancer screening were identified as the following. Cervical cancer screening rates among Arab American women are comparable to other ethnic minorities and lower than non-Hispanic White women. Findings are inconsistent regarding factors influencing cervical cancer screening behaviors in this underrepresented group. . Significant need exists for more research to better understand cervical cancer prevention behaviors in this group to inform culturally relevant interventions. Healthcare providers play a crucial role in increasing cervical cancer screening awareness and recommendations for Arab American women.

This study aimed at conducting a strategic analysis of Tuberculosis prevention and control actions in Brazil and Ethiopia, looking at the potential of directly observed treatment short-course strategy (DOTS) and community DOTS in both countries. Literature review was conducted using PubMed, Medline-Ovid, EMBASE, and SCIELO databases. The reviewed terms were Tuberculosis, prevention and control and Brazil (or Brasil) or Ethiopia (or Etiopia). Study's eligibility included article's title or abstract in English or Portuguese and comprised the following Tuberculosis policy components: management; care; communication, and social mobilization; training and professional development; epidemiological surveillance, and monitoring and evaluation. The study identified, compared, and analyzed the challenges and recommendations reported in the literature. Although DOTS was not able to address all the difficulties regarding Tuberculosis control and prevention, it contributes to overcome challenges identified in the literature review. Decentralizing DOTS in Ethiopia and implementing DOTS in Brazil were key recommendations to overcome problems of access and treatment default. DOTS and Community DOTS cannot solve every identified Tuberculosis challenge, but together they complement each other. Both strategies need to be tailored to site's challenges.

The care of an adult son or daughter with psychosis is filled with overwhelming demands caused by the symptomatology and illness exacerbations. Parents display disenfranchised grief over multiple losses and report increased levels of emotional burden. Most studies use quantitative methods and rely on pre-existing theoretical frameworks to investigate, through psychometric measures, the effects of being a carer. Meaning attributions to the disorder, and changes in parent-child relations over time, are poorly understood. This hermeneutic phenomenological study illuminates the subjective experience of parenting a son or daughter with psychosis, as it is lived and described by parents of young adults with psychosis. Findings suggest that the parents' perceptions of their child changes over the course of the disorder, leading to a redefinition of the parent-child relationship, causing alternations in attachment. Findings illuminate the parents' profound guilt over having contributed or not prevented the disorder, over not being 'good' parents and feeling ambivalent towards an 'intimate stranger.' Guilt is compensated by absolute dedication to the son or daughter's care, at the expense of their own well-being. Interventions for parents must be available as soon as possible, both during hospitalization and after discharge. Professionals should provide a therapeutic space, where parents could express intimate thoughts and feelings, address guilt, fear and resentment issues, be assisted in their parenting role as well as in the reconstruction of a sense of self and self-esteem. Professionals are invited to facilitate illness acceptance, provide accurate information, assist parents to redefine their relationship to the child and facilitate the integration of the traumatic experience into their personal and family narrative. Professionals must develop in depth awareness of their biases and attitudes, have an ongoing training on how to respond to the parents' needs, facilitate therapeutic change and accompany families through the course of their adult child's illness trajectory. Introduction Children who are diagnosed with psychosis often rely on their parents for prolonged care. The impact of such care is partially understood as most studies use quantitative methods and pre-existing theoretical frameworks that limit their investigation to emotional burden, and emotional responses. Aim Explore the parents' lived experience of caring for a child with psychosis. Method A hermeneutic phenomenological design was used with a sample of 16 parents of children with psychotic disorders who were hospitalized or attended the outpatient clinic of a large psychiatric Greek hospital. Results Identified themes were as follows: (i) the psychosis experience, (ii) redefinition of the parent-child relationship over the course of the disorder and (iii) challenges of parenting a child with psychosis. Discussion 'Caring for an intimate stranger' reflects the parents' overall experience, involving changes in the parent-child relationship, ambivalence towards caretaking and profound guilt, compensated by self-sacrifice parenting practices. Findings highlight the necessity to train mental health professionals to provide individualized information; facilitate family communication; address the parents' guilt, ambivalence, meaning attributions that compromise adjustment; and support them through the challenges of parenting a son or daughter with psychosis.

Oral and poster presentations at annual national meetings of the Romanian Society of Gastroenterology and Hepatology (RSGH) provide a forum for education, communication and discussion of new research. However, for the wide-spread dissemination of the new research work, each presentation should be subsequently published as a full-text article in peer-reviewed, indexed journals. to evaluate the publication rate of full-text articles in peer-reviewed journals after being first presented as abstracts at two consecutive RSGH annual meetings. A retrospective review of all abstracts presented at the annual meetings in 2013 and 2014 was performed. PubMed and Google Scholar were searched using abstract titles, first author's name and affiliation, and key words from the title to identify whether an abstract resulted in a peer-reviewed publication. Abstracts published in full-text were subsequently assessed for study type, study center, topics, publication year, journals and their impact factors (IFs). We chose the 2013 and 2014 meetings to ensure a minimum two-year follow-up period since the last meeting for the publication as full-length articles. A total of 562 abstracts were presented (275 in 2013, 287 in 2014). There were 150 oral presentations (93 in 2013, 57 in 2014) and 412 poster presentations (182 in 2013, 230 in 2014). Fifty seven of them (10.1%) were published as full-text articles, among them 26 (17.3%) after oral presentations and 31 (7.5%) after poster presentations (P=0.001). University affiliation and original research work were most likely to be published. The average IFs of the journals which published the articles were 2.42 in 2013 and 1.87 in 2014. The publication rate for the annual RSGH meetings abstracts as full-text articles in peer-reviewed journals is very low compared to the analyses performed in gastroenterology or other medical specialities from other countries. It is not clear yet what are the factors responsible for the failure of publication.

Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways affecting an estimated 334 million people worldwide. During severe exacerbations, patients may need to attend a medical centre or hospital emergency department for treatment with systemic corticosteroids, which can be administered intravenously or orally. Some people with asthma are prescribed oral corticosteroids (OCS) for self-administration (i.e. patient-initiated) or to administer to their child with asthma (i.e. parent-initiated), in the event of an exacerbation. This approach to treatment is becoming increasingly common. To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of patient- or parent-initiated oral steroids for adults and children with asthma exacerbations. We identified trials from Cochrane Airways' Specialised Register (CASR) and also conducted a search of the US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (apps.who.int/trialsearch). We searched CASR from its inception to 18 May 2016 and trial registries from their inception to 24 August 2016; we imposed no restriction on language of publication. We looked for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), reported as full-text, those published as abstract only, and unpublished data; we excluded cross-over trials.We looked for studies where adults (aged 18 years or older) or children of school age (aged 5 years or older) with asthma were randomised to receive: (a) any patient-/parent-initiated OCS or (b) placebo, normal care, alternative active treatment, or an identical personalised asthma action plan without the patient- or parent-initiated OCS component. Two review authors independently screened the search results to identify any studies that met the prespecified inclusion criteria.The prespecified primary outcomes were hospital admissions for asthma, asthma symptoms at follow-up and serious adverse events. Despite comprehensive searches of electronic databases and clinical trial registries, we did not identify any studies meeting the inclusion criteria for this review. Five potentially relevant studies were excluded for two reasons: the intervention did not meet the inclusion criteria for this review (three studies) and studies had a cross-over design (two studies). Two of the excluded studies asked the relevant clinical question. However, these studies were excluded due to their cross-over design, as per the protocol. We contacted the authors of the cross-over trials who were unable to provide data for the first treatment period (i.e. prior to cross-over). There is currently no evidence from randomised trials (non-cross-over design) to inform the use of patient- or parent-initiated oral corticosteroids in people with asthma.

We aimed to investigate the effects of special packaging (child-resistant, adult-friendly) and tamper-resistant packaging on health and behavioral outcomes in order to identify research gaps and implications for packaging standards for tobacco products. We searched seven databases for keywords related to special and tamper-resistant packaging, consulted experts, and reviewed citations of potentially relevant studies. 733 unique papers were identified. Two coders independently screened each title and abstract for eligibility. They then reviewed the full text of the remaining papers for a second round of eligibility screening. Included studies investigated a causal relationship between type of packaging or packaging regulation and behavioral or health outcomes and had a study population composed of consumers. Studies were excluded on the basis of publication type, if they were not peer-reviewed, and if they had low external validity. Two reviewers independently coded each paper for study and methodological characteristics and limitations. Discrepancies were discussed and resolved. The review included eight studies: four assessing people's ability to access the contents of different packaging types and four evaluating the impact of packaging requirements on health-related outcomes. Child-resistant packaging was generally more difficult to open than non-child-resistant packaging. Child-resistant packaging requirements have been associated with reductions in child mortality. Child-resistant packaging holds the expectation to reduce tobacco product poisonings among children under six.

The United States is increasingly racially diverse. Racial disparities in maternal-child health persist. Despite national calls for workforce diversification, more than 90% of certified nurse-midwives are white. This systematic review examines how racism and midwifery's lack of racial diversity impact both midwives and their patients. Databases were searched in January 2016 for studies that explored 1) racially concordant or racially discordant maternity care provided, at least in part, by midwives; 2) women of color's experience of race and discrimination in maternity care provided, at least in part, by midwives; and 3) midwives of color's experience of race and discrimination in clinical, educational, and/or professional settings. Studies were excluded if they were conducted outside the United States, focused on recent immigrant populations, or didn't have an English-language abstract. Selected studies were each reviewed by 2 independent reviewers, and data from the studies were entered into literature tables and synthesized for discussion. A total of 7 studies was retained for review-3 on the experience of patients and 4 on the experience of providers. The studies show racism is common in midwifery education, professional organizations, and clinical practices. Racism and midwifery's lack of racial diversity act as a barrier to people of color completing midwifery education programs and fully participating in midwifery professional organizations. Both patients and midwives of color identified midwives of color as uniquely positioned to provide high-quality care for communities of color. The midwifery profession and its patients stand to substantially benefit from diversification of the field, which requires addressing racism within the profession. Structural competency is a new theory that offers an effective framework to guide these efforts.

Abstract This paper involved a cross-sectional study that evaluated the results and refusals to take the breathalyzer test among drivers intercepted by the Driving Under the Influence (DUI) Spot-Check Campaign (Operação Lei Seca) in the capital of Rio de Janeiro and Baixada Fluminense. It was conducted using data provided by the State Government which were collected from drivers intercepted in the months of December 2013 and January 2014. Descriptive analysis was conducted of the sample and of the association between gender, age and location variables with the result of the breathalyzer test and refusal to take the test using a logistic regression model. Of the 4756 (100%) drivers intercepted, 59 (1.2%) failed the breathalyzer test and 229 (4.8%) refused to take it. Only the location of interception variable was statistically significant with greater chances of failing (OR = 4.01) and refusal to take the test (OR = 5.14) among drivers intercepted in the Baixada Fluminense. Systematic monitoring actions taken by the DUI Spot-Check Campaign that have occurred for longer in the capital appear to have a positive impact on the drinking and driving behavior of drivers.

Although intra-familial egg donation has been practiced for more than 15 years in several countries, little is known about family relationships in this family type. Framed within the new kinship studies, this article focuses on the experiential dimension of kinship in sister-to-sister egg donation families: how is kinship 'unpacked' and 'reconstructed' in this specific family constellation? Qualitative data analysis of interviews with receiving parents, their donating sisters and the donor children revealed six themes: (1) being connected as an extended family; (2) disambiguating motherhood; (3) giving and receiving as structuring processes; (4) acknowledging and managing the 'special' link between donor and child; (5) making sense of the union between father and donor; and (6) kinship constructions being challenged. This study showed the complex and continuous balancing of meanings related to the mother-child dyad, the donor-child dyad and the donor-father dyad. What stood out was the complexity of, on the one hand cherishing the genetic link with the child allowed by the sisters' egg donation, while, on the other, managing the meanings related to this link, by, for instance, acknowledging, downsizing, symbolising, and differentiating it from the mother-child bond. (A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be accessed at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_979cmCmR9rLrKuD7z0ycA).

In 1981, psychologist James Flynn noticed that IQ scores had risen streadily over nearly a century a staggering difference of 18 points over two generations. After a careful analysis, he concluded the cause to be culture. Society had become more intelligent-come to grips with bigger, more abstract ideas over time-and had made people smarter. This observation, combined with solid evidence that IQ scores are also not fixed within an individual, neatly dispels the idea of intelligence being an innate and fixed entity. While intelligence clearly has a biological component, it is best defined, as a set of continually developed skills. WIREs Cogn Sci 2017, 8:e1366. doi: 10.1002/wcs.1366 For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs website.

To assess the frequency of additional care, and parents' perceptions of quality, respectful care, in pregnancies subsequent to stillbirth. Multi-language web-based survey. International. A total of 2716 parents, from 40 high- and middle-income countries. Data were obtained from a broader survey of parents' experiences following stillbirth. Data were analysed using descriptive statistics and stratified by geographic region. Subgroup analyses explored variation in additional care by gestational age at index stillbirth. Frequency of additional care, and perceptions of quality, respectful care. The majority (66%) of parents conceived their subsequent pregnancy within 1 year of stillbirth. Additional antenatal care visits and ultrasound scans were provided for 67% and 70% of all parents, respectively, although there was wide variation across geographic regions. Care addressing psychosocial needs was less frequently provided, such as additional visits to a bereavement counsellor (10%) and access to named care provider's phone number (27%). Compared with parents whose stillbirth occurred at ≤ 29 weeks of gestation, parents whose stillbirth occurred at ≥ 30 weeks of gestation were more likely to receive various forms of additional care, particularly the option for early delivery after 37 weeks. Around half (47-63%) of all parents felt that elements of quality, respectful care were consistently applied, such as spending enough time with parents and involving parents in decision-making. Greater attention is required to providing thoughtful, empathic and collaborative care in all pregnancies following stillbirth. Specific education and training for health professionals is needed. More support for providing quality care in pregnancies after stillbirth is needed. Study rationale and design More than two million babies are stillborn every year. Most parents will conceive again soon after having a stillborn baby. These parents are more likely to have another stillborn baby in the next pregnancy than parents who have not had a stillborn baby before. The next pregnancy after stillbirth is often an extremely anxious time for parents, as they worry about whether their baby will survive. In this study we asked 2716 parents from 40 countries about the care they received during their first pregnancy after stillbirth. Parents were recruited mainly through the International Stillbirth Alliance and completed on online survey that was available in six languages. Findings Parents often had extra antenatal visits and extra ultrasound scans in the next pregnancy, but they rarely had extra emotional support. Also, many parents felt their care providers did not always listen to them and spend enough time with them, involve them in decisions, and take their concerns seriously. Parents were more likely to receive various forms of extra care in the next pregnancy if their baby had died later in pregnancy compared to earlier in pregnancy. Limitations In this study we only have information from parents who were able and willing to complete an online survey. Most of the parents were involved in charity and support groups and most parents lived in developed countries. We do not know how well the findings relate to other parents. Finally, our study does not include parents who may have tried for another pregnancy but were not able to conceive. Potential impact This study can help to improve care through the development of best practice guidelines for pregnancies following stillbirth. The results suggest that parents need better emotional support in these pregnancies, and more opportunities to participate actively in decisions about care. Extra support should be available no matter how far along in pregnancy the previous stillborn baby died.

The need to regulate physician-assisted suicide (PAS) and organizations offering assisted suicide has been controversially debated in Germany. Before the German parliament voted on various drafts in November 2015, the German Association for Palliative Medicine surveyed its members on their attitudes and experiences regarding PAS. Items for the survey were derived from the literature and consented in a focus group. 2005-2015 - PubMed: PAS [Title/Abstract] UND survey (all countries), grey literature. We invited 5152 members of the DGP to participate in the online/paper survey. Descriptive quantitative and content analytic qualitative analysis of data using SPSS and MaxQDA. We obtained 1811 valid data sets (response rate 36.9%). 33.7% of the participants were male, 43.6% were female, and 0.4% identifed as other. Physicians accounted for 48.5% of the respondents, 17.8% nurses, other professions 14.3%, and about 20% of the data was missing socio-demographic information. More than 90% agreed that "wishes for PAS may be ambivalent" and "are rather a wish to end an unbearable situation". Of the 833 participating physicians, 56% refused participating in PAS and 74.2% had been asked to perform PAS. PAS was actually performed by 3%. Of all participating members, 56% approved of a legal ban of organizations offering assisted suicide. More than 60% of all professions agreed that PAS is not a part of palliative care. The respondents show a broad spectrum of attitudes, only partly supporting statements of relevant bodies, such as DGP. Because many are confronted with the issue, PAS is relevant to professionals in palliative care.

This is an invited commentary article, and so no abstract is required. By way of a brief description, this article tells two success stories in which policies were changed to increase equity in active living, and identifies the keys to success in each case.

Interim analyses of randomised controlled trials are sometimes published before the final results are available. In several cases, the treatment effects were noticeably different after patient recruitment and follow-up completed. We therefore conducted a literature review of peer-reviewed journals to compare the reported treatment effects between interim and final publications and to examine the magnitude of the difference. We performed an electronic search of MEDLINE from 1990 to 2014 (keywords: 'clinical trial' OR 'clinical study' AND 'random*' AND 'interim' OR 'preliminary'), and we manually identified the corresponding final publication. Where the electronic search produced a final report in which the abstract cited interim results, we found the interim publication. We also manually searched every randomised controlled trial in eight journals, covering a range of impact factors and general medical and specialist publications (1996-2014). All paired articles were checked to ensure that the same comparison between interventions was available in both. In all, 63 studies are included in our review, and the same quantitative comparison was available in 58 of these. The final treatment effects were smaller than the interim ones in 39 (67%) trials and the same size or larger in 19 (33%). There was a marked reduction, defined as a ≥20% decrease in the size of the treatment effect from interim to final analysis, in 11 (19%) trials compared to a marked increase in 3 (5%), p = 0.057. The magnitude of percentage change was larger in trials where commercial support was reported, and increased as the proportion of final events at the interim report decreased in trials where commercial support was reported (interaction p = 0.023). There was no evidence of a difference between trials that stopped recruitment at the interim analysis where this was reported as being pre-specified versus those that were not pre-specified (interaction p = 0.87). Published interim trial results were more likely to be associated with larger treatment effects than those based on the final report. Publishing interim results should be discouraged, in order to have reliable estimates of treatment effects for clinical decision-making, regulatory authority reviews and health economic analyses. Our work should be expanded to include conference publications and manual searches of additional journal publications.

The purpose of this paper is to describe the trends and patterns of self-inflicted injuries, available from Canadian administrative data between 1979 and 2014/15, in order to inform and improve suicide prevention efforts. Suicide mortality and hospital separation data were retrieved from the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) holdings of Statistics Canada's Canadian Vital Statistics: Death Database (CVS:D) (1979 to 2012); Canadian Socio-Economic Information Management System (CANSIM 2011, 2012); the Hospital Morbidity Database (HMDB) (1994/95 to 2010/11); and the Discharge Abstract Database (2011/12 to 2014/15). Mortality and hospitalization counts and rates were reported by sex, 5-year age groups and method. The Canadian suicide rate (males and females combined, all ages, age-sex standardized rate) has decreased from 14.4/100 000 (n = 3355) in 1979 to 10.4/100 000 (n = 3926) in 2012, with an annual percent change (APC) of -1.2% (95% CI: -1.3 to -1.0). However, this trend was not observed in both sexes: female suicide rates stabilized around 1990, while male rates continued declining over time-yet males still accounted for 75.7% of all suicides in 2012. Suffocation (hanging and strangulation) was the primary method of suicide (46.9%) among Canadians of all ages in 2012, followed by poisoning at 23.3%. In the 2014/15 fiscal year, there were 13 438 hospitalizations in Canada (excluding Quebec) associated with self-inflicted injuries-over 3 times the number of suicides. Over time females have displayed consistently higher rates of hospitalization for self-inflicted injury than males, with 63% of the total. Poisoning was reported as the most frequent means of self-inflicted harm in the fiscal year 2014/15, at 86% of all hospitalizations. Suicides and self-inflicted injuries continue to be a serious - but preventable - public health problem that requires ongoing surveillance.

[No Abstract Available].

The characterization sections of biologics license applications (BLAs) approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) between 2000 and 2015 were investigated to examine the extent of the use of mass spectrometry. Mass spectrometry was found to be integral to the characterization of these biotherapeutics. Of the 80 electronically submitted monoclonal antibody and protein biotherapeutic BLAs included in this study, 79 were found to use mass spectrometric workflows for protein or impurity characterization. To further examine how MS is being used in successful BLAs, the applications were filtered based on the type and number of quality attributes characterized, the mass spectrometric workflows used (peptide mapping, intact mass analysis, and cleaved glycan analysis), the methods used to introduce the proteins into the gas phase (ESI, MALDI, or LC-ESI), and the specific types of instrumentation used. Analyses were conducted over a time course based on the FDA BLA approval to determine if any trends in utilization could be observed over time. Additionally, the different classes of protein-based biotherapeutics among the approved BLAs were clustered to determine if any trends could be attributed to the specific type of biotherapeutic. Graphical Abstract ᅟ.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: There is disagreement about the costs and benefits of asking women about their abuse experiences in practice and research settings. No known meta-syntheses have been conducted to evaluate the qualitative data that exist on the experiences of women being asked about their abuse. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO THE EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This review adds robust qualitative evidence that interviewing women about their abuse experiences can be a beneficial and healing experience for them. Mental health nurses are in an ideal position to create a therapeutic environment to interview women about their abuse experiences. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Mental health nurses are strongly encouraged to ask about and document abuse in all of their interviews and assessments, as well as act as advocates and discuss reported abuse within their interdisciplinary teams, to provide individualized, trauma-informed care. The mental health nurse should listen attentively, avoid judgement, offer reassurance, make appropriate referrals and provide resources for women, including those with both past and current abuse histories. Nurses are strongly encouraged to ask about abuse in all settings in which they encounter women, including in psychiatric and mental health settings. Introduction Collections of quantitative data exist outlining the costs and benefits of asking female research participants about their abuse experiences; however, no known meta-syntheses have been conducted to evaluate the qualitative data that exist on the experiences of women being asked about their abuse. Aim/Question The purpose of this qualitative systematic review was to analyse and interpret qualitative findings regarding asking women about their abuse experiences with the intention of understanding risks and benefits. Method The sample (N = 11) was derived from an expansive search of peer-reviewed literature using multidisciplinary electronic databases. Qualitative findings were extracted, coded and categorized. Reflective memos were developed, and themes emerged. Results While initially distressing, being interviewed about abuse is more beneficial than harmful for women, due to the therapeutic process of talking about abuse. Discussion To maximize the therapeutic impact of discussing abuse, women must maintain autonomy and feel they are in a safe and confidential environment. Within this supportive atmosphere, very few women report any regret after discussing abuse and are able to identify positive outcomes. Implications for practice Findings from this review support the need for mental health nurses and other clinicians to create an optimal environment for discussing abuse and offer relevant practice recommendations. Researchers are encouraged to include women in studies that involve asking about abuse experiences.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Negative perceptions of illnesses can increase caregivers' use of ineffective coping strategies, which may increase their burdens and distress. Scientific and theoretical framework showed that culture and health organization system influence perception of illnesses and thus also has an impact on the coping strategies used. There is a lack of data on comparative perceptions of illnesses and coping styles between India and Switzerland and that is why this hypothesis needs to be confirmed. The comparison between two countries with large cultural and socioeconomics differences will provide a more significant impact. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This cultural comparative study explores the associations between representations of illness and three forms of coping styles (i.e. problem-focused, emotion-focused and social support-focused coping) among caregivers of people diagnosed with schizophrenia spectrum disorders in Mangalore, India, and in French-speaking Switzerland. Results showed significant differences between Swiss and Indian caregivers practically in all illness' perceptions and coping styles, which is in accord with the theoretical framework. However, two results showed also similarities: the perception that schizophrenia can have cyclical episodes and that it can have negative consequences for caregivers. These differences and similarities allow to confirm the hypothesis that culture and health organization system influence illness' perception which impact the used coping styles. However, to develop specific nursing interventions for each culture, more research is needed to specify qualitatively the content of these differences and similarities. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Knowledge of how culture influences perceptions and coping styles is essential to develop quality interventions. Nurses should evaluate caregivers' perceptions and the causes they attribute to illnesses to help them maintain or develop efficient coping strategies. Knowledge of specific cultural differences and similarities can help nurses to provide individualized care that takes into account personal values to ensure recovery processes. Introduction Scientific and theoretical framework showed that culture and health organization system influence perception of illnesses and thus also has an impact on the coping strategies used. Aim/question This cultural comparative study explores illness' perception and coping styles among the caregivers of people diagnosed with schizophrenia spectrum disorders in Mangalore, India, and Lausanne, Switzerland. Method The answers of 92 Swiss caregivers, using paper or electronic surveys depending on the participants' preference, and 100 Indian caregivers via an interview with a nurse were examined. Results The results confirm the hypothesis that culture and health organization system influence illness' perception which impact the used coping styles. Significant differences between Swiss and Indian caregivers practically in all illness' perceptions and coping styles were present, which is in accord with the theoretical framework. However, two results showed also similarities: the perception that schizophrenia can have cyclical episodes and that it can have negative consequences for caregivers. Discussion These differences will affect the development of interventions for caregivers in both countries. Implications for Practice The cultural differences observed in this study not only will allow interventions to be adapted to the specific needs of the two populations but also to identify their shared needs.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Caregivers of adolescents with ADHD experience major difficulties as care providers and are in need of guidance and support. Adolescents with ADHD may develop oppositional and criminal behaviour. More than 50 % have the symptoms in adulthood, and up to one-fourth with severe emotional or antisocial difficulties. There is a lack of evidence of caregivers' supporting intervention although caregiver groups have been found to contribute to better coping, decreased stress and improvements in ADHD symptoms. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Primary caregivers of adolescents with ADHD experienced better quality of life after the Therapeutic Conversation Intervention. The intervention contributed to better social functioning among secondary caregivers. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The content of the Therapeutic Conversation Intervention is significant and highlights the utility of a combination of group and private sessions for caregivers of people with ADHD. The intervention can influence how services for families are organized, such that a Therapeutic Conversation Intervention could be offered on a regular basis. Introduction Caregivers of adolescents with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder are burdened with tasks and many suffer from distress. Adolescents with ADHD may develop antisocial behaviour and caregiver's group can empower caregiver's supporting role. Aim/Question To evaluate the effectiveness of a Therapeutic Conversation Intervention on caregivers of adolescents with ADHD regarding strengthening the supportive role. Method The study utilized a quasi-experimental design. The participants (n = 60) were caregivers of adolescents (13-17 years old) with ADHD. The intervention consisted in-group and parent sessions. The Calgary Family Model and the Family Illness Beliefs Model were used as theoretical frameworks. Results The study revealed significant differences in the improvement of quality of life; regarding primary caregiver (PC) worry, daily activities, family relationships and collaboration post-intervention, as well emotional functioning at both post-intervention and follow-up. Secondary caregiver (SC) social functioning was significantly improved at follow-up. Discussion The intervention proved to be beneficial to the caregivers and is filling a gap in much needed intervention. Implication for practice The results will expand health care professionals' knowledge of how to increase PC quality of life when supporting their adolescent with ADHD. This treatment information should improve service at health care centres/hospitals where adolescents with ADHD receive care.

Historically, less than half of peer-reviewed abstracts are published. We set out to determine how many pancreas-related abstracts are published within 5 years of presentation at gastroenterology conferences and to determine a model that predicts successful transition from abstract to journal publication. We collected data on study design from all pancreas-related abstracts at the 2010 Digestive Disease Week (DDW), American College of Gastroenterology, and American Pancreatic Association conferences. We then determined whether an abstract was published by October 2015 using a standardized search algorithm. Of 412 abstracts, 39.8% were published. Studies that were of basic science or translational design (P = 0.02, 0.01, respectively); had more listed authors (P = 0.05); employed randomized, prospective, and multicenter methodology (P = 0.02); and were accepted to DDW (P = 0.02) were more likely to be published. After regression, basic/translational studies (P = 0.002, 0.02, respectively) and DDW-accepted abstracts (P = 0.004) continued to predict successful publication. It is not clear why only 40% of the pancreas abstracts from 2010 were published 5 years later. Some abstracts may go unpublished because of methodological flaws that escape detection during abstract peer review. Therefore, physicians should use caution when applying abstract data to their clinical decision making.

To summarize the state of the art published during the year 2015 in the areas related to consumer health informatics and education with a special emphasis on unintended consequences of applying mobile and social media technologies in that domain. We conducted a systematic review of articles published in PubMed with a predefined set of queries, which lead to the selection of over 700 potential relevant articles. Section editors screened those papers on the title, abstract, and finally complete paper basis, taking into account the papers' relevance for the section topic. The 15 most representative papers were finally selected by consensus between the two section editors and submitted for full review and scoring to external reviewers and the yearbook editors. Based on the final scoring, section editors selected the best five papers. The five best papers can be grouped in two major areas: 1) Digital health literacy and 2) Quality and safety concerns. Regarding health literacy issues of patients with chronic conditions such as asthma, online interventions should rather focus on changing patient beliefs about the disease than on supporting them in the management of their pathology since personally controlled health management systems do not show expected benefits,. Nevertheless, encouraging and training chronic patients for an active online health information-seeking behaviour substantially decreases state anxiety level. Regarding safety and privacy issues, even recommended health-related apps available on mobile phones do not guarantee personal data protection. Furthermore, the analysis indicated that patients undergoing Internet interventions experienced at least one adverse event that might be related to treatment. At least, predictive factors have been identified in order to credit or not a health rumour. Trusting digital and connected health can be achieved if patients, health care professionals, and industrials build a shared model of health data management integrating ethics rules. Only increasing efforts in education with regards of digital health would help reach this goal., This would not resolve all frauds and security issues but at least improve their detection.

Mass casualty civilian shootings present an uncommon but recurring challenge to emergency services around the world and produce unique management demands. On the background of a rising threat of transnational terrorism worldwide, emergency response strategies are of critical importance. This study aims to systematically identify, describe and appraise the quality of indexed and non-indexed literature on the pre-hospital management of modern civilian mass shootings to guide future practice. Systematic literature searches of PubMed, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews and Scopus were conducted in conjunction with simple searches of non-indexed databases; Web of Science, OpenDOAR and Evidence Search. The searches were last carried out on 20 April 2016 and only identified those papers published after the 1 January 1980. Included documents had to contain descriptions, discussions or experiences of the pre-hospital management of civilian mass shootings. From the 494 identified manuscripts, 73 were selected on abstract and title and after full text reading 47 were selected for inclusion in analysis. The search yielded reports of 17 mass shooting events, the majority from the USA with additions from France, Norway, the UK and Kenya. Between 1994 and 2015 the shooting of 1649 people with 578 deaths at 17 separate events are described. Quality appraisal demonstrated considerable heterogeneity in reporting and revealed limited data on mass shootings globally. Key themes were identified to improve future practice: tactical emergency medical support may harmonise inner cordon interventions, a need for inter-service education on effective haemorrhage control, the value of senior triage operators and the need for regular mass casualty incident simulation.

Presentation at scientific meetings is the usual first step to communicate new research findings. However, without subsequent, peer-reviewed publication, the wider propagation and the permanent documentation of important scholarly work may be lost. Our aim was to analyze and compare the publication status of the work presented at the European Association of Plastic Surgeons' (EURAPS) and at the American Association of Plastic Surgeons' (AAPS) annual meetings. By using the abstract booklets from the annual meetings, all presentations given over a 10-year period (2000-2009) were analyzed. A search using PubMed and Google Scholar was performed to obtain publication status of each presentation as of 2014 (observation period: 5 years). Data were analyzed according to subspecialty. Weighted chi-square was used to examine differences in publication rates for the two societies and for English speaking vs. non-English speaking countries. Seventy-two percent (n = 246) of the abstracts from the AAPS were published in peer-reviewed journals. The most published subspecialty was "Craniofacial surgery" followed by "Breast surgery." Mean time to publication was 22.1 months (range -72-111 months). The most common journal for publication was Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery (PRS). Sixty-seven percent (n = 449) of the EURAPS abstracts were published in peer-reviewed journals. The most published subspecialty was "Microsurgery" followed by "Clinical studies." The mean time to publication was 17.3 months (range -67-111 months). The most common journal for publication was PRS. Differences between the two societies' publication status were not observed (p = 0.157), but EURAPS abstracts had a significantly shorter time to publication (p = 0.007). Differences between English-speaking and non-English-speaking countries were not observed (p = 0.931). Mean level of evidence for published studies from the AAPS and the EURAPS meetings was 3.5 and 3.7, respectively. A majority of the presented abstracts from both societies have resulted in publication. After "The Society for Cardiothoracic Surgery," AAPS and EURAPS have the highest publication rates for surgical abstracts, indicating a high scientific value of these meetings.

Although cognitive deficits are consistent endophenotypes of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, findings in psychotic bipolar disorder (BDP) are inconsistent. In this study we compared adult unaffected first-degree relatives of schizophrenia and BDP patients on cognition, psychopathology, social functioning and quality of life. Sixty-six unaffected first-degree relatives of schizophrenia patients (SUnR), 36 unaffected first-degree relatives of BDP patients (BDPUnR) and 102 controls participated in the study. Between-group differences were examined and Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) predicted group membership. Visual memory, control inhibition, working memory, cognitive flexibility and abstract reasoning were linearly impaired in the relatives' groups. Poorer verbal fluency and processing speed were evident only in the SUnR group. The SUnR group had higher depressive and somatization symptoms while the BDPUnR group had higher anxiety and lower social functioning compared with the controls. Individuals with superior cognition were more likely to be classified as controls; those with higher social functioning, prolonged processing speed and lower anxiety were more likely to be classified as SUnR. The relatives' sample is quite heterogeneous; the effects of genetic or environmental risk-factors were not examined. Cognitive functions mediated by a fronto-parietal network, show linear impairments in unaffected relatives of BDP and schizophrenia patients; processing speed and verbal fluency impairments were evident only in schizophrenia relatives. Self-perceived symptomatology and social functioning also differ between schizophrenia and BDP relatives. The continuum seen in patients in several indices was also seen in the cognitive impairments in unaffected relatives of schizophrenia and BDP patients.

Values can be useful for identifying what is important to individuals and communities, yet there is currently not a coherent way to conceptualize, identify, and organize the breadth of values that can be affected by a natural disaster. This research proposes a conceptual framework for how to conceptualize, identify, and organize values, and proposes a concrete, tangible value called the valued entity. The framework is applied in two studies of bushfire in Victoria, Australia: 112 submissions from individuals to the 2009 Victorian Bushfires Royal Commission and interviews with 30 members of the public in bushfire risk landscapes. Our findings suggest that: what people value ranges from abstract to concrete; prevalent abstract values include benevolence and universalism; prevalent mid-level valued attributes include natural attributes of landscapes and human life and welfare; prevalent valued entities are people and properties close to the person. Comparison between the two studies suggests people with more recent experience with bushfire refer less to the importance of natural places and natural attributes. The conceptual framework can act as a boundary object to facilitate researchers and policy-makers understanding the breadth of values affected by natural disaster events and management actions and how governance can better consider values at different scales.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 126(2) of 

Infectious disease epidemiologists have long recognised the importance of social variables as drivers of epidemics and disease risk, yet few apply analytic approaches from social epidemiology. We quantified and evaluated the extent to which recent infectious disease research is employing the perspectives and methods of social epidemiology by replicating the methodology used by Cohen  2 search strategies were used to identify and review articles published from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2013. First, we performed a keyword search of 'social epidemiology' in the title/abstract/text of published studies identified in PubMed, PsychInfo and ISI Web of Science, and classified each study as pertaining to infectious, non-infectious or other outcomes. A second PubMed search identified articles that were cross-referenced under non-infectious or infectious, and search terms relating to social variables. The abstracts of all articles were read, classified and examined to identify patterns over time. Findings suggest that infectious disease research publications that explicitly or implicitly incorporate social epidemiological approaches have stagnated in recent years. While the number of publications that were explicitly self-classified as 'social epidemiology' has risen, the proportion that investigated infectious disease outcomes has declined. Furthermore, infectious diseases accounted for the smallest proportion of articles that were cross-referenced with Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) terms related to social factors, and most of these involved sexually transmitted diseases. The current landscape of infectious disease epidemiology could benefit from new approaches to understanding how the social and biophysical environment sustains transmission and exacerbates disparities. The framework of social epidemiology provides infectious disease researchers with such a perspective and research opportunity.

The article analyses the decision-making process between doctors and parents of babies in neonatal intensive care. In particular, it focuses on cases in which the decision concerns the redirection of care from full intensive care to palliative care at the end of life. Thirty one families were recruited from a neonatal intensive care unit in England and their formal interactions with the doctor recorded. The conversations were transcribed and analysed using conversation analysis. Analysis focused on sequences in which decisions about the redirection of care were initiated and progressed. Two distinct communicative approaches to decision-making were used by doctors: 'making recommendations' and 'providing options'. Different trajectories for parental involvement in decision-making were afforded by each design, as well as differences in terms of the alignments, or conflicts, between doctors and parents. 'Making recommendations' led to misalignment and reduced opportunities for questions and collaboration; 'providing options' led to an aligned approach with opportunities for questions and fuller participation in the decision-making process. The findings are discussed in the context of clinical uncertainty, moral responsibility and the implications for medical communication training and guidance. A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be accessed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MyuymxDNupk&feature=youtu.be.

Falsified medicines are deliberately fraudulent drugs that pose a direct risk to patient health and undermine healthcare systems, causing global morbidity and mortality. To produce an overview of anti-falsifying public health interventions deployed at international, national and local scales in low and middle income countries (LMIC). We conducted a systematic search of the PubMed, Web of Science, Embase and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases for healthcare or pharmaceutical policies relevant to reducing the burden of falsified medicines in LMIC. Our initial search identified 660 unique studies, of which 203 met title/abstract inclusion criteria and were categorised according to their primary focus: international; national; local pharmacy; internet pharmacy; drug analysis tools. Eighty-four were included in the qualitative synthesis, along with 108 articles and website links retrieved through secondary searches. On the international stage, we discuss the need for accessible pharmacovigilance (PV) global reporting systems, international leadership and funding incorporating multiple stakeholders (healthcare, pharmaceutical, law enforcement) and multilateral trade agreements that emphasise public health. On the national level, we explore the importance of establishing adequate medicine regulatory authorities and PV capacity, with drug screening along the supply chain. This requires interdepartmental coordination, drug certification and criminal justice legislation and enforcement that recognise the severity of medicine falsification. Local healthcare professionals can receive training on medicine quality assessments, drug registration and pharmacological testing equipment. Finally, we discuss novel technologies for drug analysis which allow rapid identification of fake medicines in low-resource settings. Innovative point-of-purchase systems like mobile phone verification allow consumers to check the authenticity of their medicines. Combining anti-falsifying strategies targeting different levels of the pharmaceutical supply chain provides multiple barriers of protection from falsified medicines. This requires the political will to drive policy implementation; otherwise, people around the world remain at risk.

The common good is one of those terms that most of us think we understand until we start talking about it. Our conversations too often become platitudinous and moralistic, feeling more and more abstract and vague. As one health care executive said to me, “How would I know if the common good bit me?"

Physicians and hospital systems often have relationships with biomedical manufacturers to develop new ideas, products, and further education. Because this relationship can influence medical research and practice, reporting disclosures are necessary to reveal any potential bias and inform consumers. The Sunshine Act was created to develop a new reporting system of these financial relationships called the Open Payments database. Currently all disclosures submitted with research to scientific meetings are at the discretion of the physician. We hypothesized that financial relationships between authors and the medical industry are underreported. We aimed to describe concordance between physicians' financial disclosures listed in the abstract book from the 41st annual scientific meeting of the Society of Gynecologic Surgeons to physician payments reported to the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services Open Payments database for the same year. Authors and scientific committee members responsible for the content of the 41st annual scientific meeting of the Society of Gynecologic Surgeons were identified from the published abstract book; each abstract listed disclosures for each author. Abstract disclosures were compared with the transactions recorded on the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services Open Payments database for concordance. Two authors reviewed each nondisclosed Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services listing to determine the relatedness between the company listed on the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services and abstract content. Abstracts and disclosures of 335 physicians meeting inclusion criteria were reviewed. A total of 209 of 335 physicians (62%) had transactions reported in the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services, which totaled $1.99 million. Twenty-four of 335 physicians (7%) listed companies with their abstracts; 5 of those 24 physicians were concordant with the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services. The total amount of all nondisclosed transactions was $1.3 million. Transactions reported in the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services associated with a single physician ranged from $11.72 to $405,903.36. Of the 209 physicians with Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services transactions that were not disclosed, the majority (68%) had at least 1 company listed in the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services that was determined after review to be related to the subject of their abstract. Voluntary disclosure of financial relationships was poor, and the majority of unlisted disclosures in the abstract book were companies related to the scientific content of the abstract. Better transparency is needed by physicians responsible for the content presented at gynecological scientific meetings.

People appear to have systematic associations between odors and colors. Previous research has emphasized the perceptual nature of these associations, but little attention has been paid to what role language might play. It is possible odor-color associations arise through a process of labeling; that is, participants select a descriptor for an odor and then choose a color accordingly (e.g., banana odor → "banana" label → yellow). If correct, this would predict odor-color associations would differ as odor descriptions differ. We compared speakers of Dutch (who overwhelmingly describe odors by referring to the source; e.g., smells like banana) with speakers of Maniq and Thai (who also describe odors with dedicated, abstract smell vocabulary; e.g., musty), and tested whether the type of descriptor mattered for odor-color associations. Participants were asked to select a color that they associated with an odor on two separate occasions (to test for consistency), and finally to label the odors. We found the hunter-gatherer Maniq showed few, if any, consistent or accurate odor-color associations. More importantly, we found the types of descriptors used to name the smells were related to the odor-color associations. When people used abstract smell terms to describe odors, they were less likely to choose a color match, but when they described an odor with a source-based term, their color choices more accurately reflected the odor source, particularly when the odor source was named correctly (e.g., banana odor → yellow). This suggests language is an important factor in odor-color cross-modal associations.

To evaluate the effectiveness of intrauterine balloon tamponade (IUBT) for management of severe postpartum haemorrhage (PPH). To identify the factors predicting IUBT failure. Prospective cohort study. Ten maternity units in a perinatal network. Women treated by IUBT from July 2010 to March 2013. The global IUBT success rate was expressed as the number of women with severe PPH who were successfully treated by IUBT divided by the total number treated by IUBT. IUBT failure was defined as the need for arterial embolisation or surgery. Logistic regression analysis was used to estimate factors predicting IUBT failure. Global IUBT success rate. Factors associated with IUBT failure. Intrauterine balloon tamponade was attempted in 226 women: 171 after vaginal delivery (VD) (75.7%) and 55 during or after caesarean delivery (CD) (24.3%). The global success rate was 83.2% (188/226) and was significantly higher after VD (152/171, 88.9%) than CD (36/55, 65.5%, P < 0.01). The percentage of CD was significantly higher in the failure group (50.0 versus 19.1%, P < 0.01), as was mean (SD) estimated blood loss before IUBT: 1508 ± 675 ml versus 1064 ± 476, P < 0.01. Coagulopathy was significantly more frequent in the failure group (50.0% versus 17.2%, P < 0.01). CD [Odds ratio (OR) 3.5; 95% CI 1.6-7.6], estimated blood loss before IUBT (OR 3.2; 95% CI 1.5-6.8) and coagulopathy (OR 5.6; 95% CI 2.5-13.0) were predictive of IUBT failure. Intrauterine balloon tamponade is an effective method for treating severe PPH. Early balloon deployment before the development of coagulopathy increases its success rate. Intrauterine balloon tamponade is effective for achieving haemostasis in intractable postpartum haemorrhages.

A growing percentage of low-income children in the United States come from Spanish-speaking homes and are dual language learners (DLLs). Recent research shows that bilingual children, compared to monolinguals, have enhanced executive functioning (EF), a set of foundational cognitive skills that predict higher social-emotional competence and academic achievement in preschool and beyond. Although this association has been found among children of different backgrounds, no study to date has assessed whether bilingual Latino preschoolers from low-income backgrounds have higher EF than their monolingual peers and their emerging bilingual peers, respectively. The current study assessed 303 predominantly Latino Head Start preschoolers (83.5% Latino and 13.5% African American) to examine this relationship. Using a language screener, three groups were formed (148 Spanish-English bilinguals, 83 English monolinguals, and 72 Spanish-dominant emerging bilinguals) and subsequently compared on a latent factor of EF. As predicted, results indicated that the bilingual group outperformed the monolingual English group on EF. Implications for the findings of the lack of EF differences between the Spanish-dominant emerging bilinguals and the other two groups are also discussed. This study advances our understanding of the intersection between language and cognitive development for young low-income Latino DLLs growing up in the United States and highlights bilingualism as a potential advantage in this population. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2Eq_MwLRfQ.

We developed a reporting guideline to provide authors with guidance about what should be reported when writing a paper for publication in a scientific journal using a particular type of research design: the single-case experimental design. This report describes the methods used to develop the Single-Case Reporting guideline In BEhavioural interventions (SCRIBE) 2016. As a result of 2 online surveys and a 2-day meeting of experts, the SCRIBE 2016 checklist was developed, which is a set of 26 items that authors need to address when writing about single-case research. This article complements the more detailed SCRIBE 2016 Explanation and Elaboration article (Tate et al., 2016 ) that provides a rationale for each of the items and examples of adequate reporting from the literature. Both these resources will assist authors to prepare reports of single-case research with clarity, completeness, accuracy, and transparency. They will also provide journal reviewers and editors with a practical checklist against which such reports may be critically evaluated. We recommend that the SCRIBE 2016 is used by authors preparing manuscripts describing single-case research for publication, as well as journal reviewers and editors who are evaluating such manuscripts. SCIENTIFIC ABSTRACT Reporting guidelines, such as the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) Statement, improve the reporting of research in the medical literature (Turner et al., 2012 ). Many such guidelines exist and the CONSORT Extension to Nonpharmacological Trials (Boutron et al., 2008 ) provides suitable guidance for reporting between-groups intervention studies in the behavioural sciences. The CONSORT Extension for N-of-1 Trials (CENT 2015) was developed for multiple crossover trials with single individuals in the medical sciences (Shamseer et al., 2015 ; Vohra et al., 2015 ), but there is no reporting guideline in the CONSORT tradition for single-case research used in the behavioural sciences. We developed the Single-Case Reporting guideline In BEhavioural interventions (SCRIBE) 2016 to meet this need. This Statement article describes the methodology of the development of the SCRIBE 2016, along with the outcome of 2 Delphi surveys and a consensus meeting of experts. We present the resulting 26-item SCRIBE 2016 checklist. The article complements the more detailed SCRIBE 2016 Explanation and Elaboration article (Tate et al., 2016 ) that provides a rationale for each of the items and examples of adequate reporting from the literature. Both these resources will assist authors to prepare reports of single-case research with clarity, completeness, accuracy, and transparency. They will also provide journal reviewers and editors with a practical checklist against which such reports may be critically evaluated.

We examined rates of serious maternal complications in relation to severe pre-eclampsia based on the delivering hospital's annualised volume. Retrospective cohort study. Singleton deliveries (n = 25 782 235) in 439 hospitals in the USA. Annualised hospital volume was categorised as 25-500, 501-1000, 1001-2000 and >2000. Rates of in-hospital maternal death and serious maternal complications, including puerperal cerebrovascular disorders, pulmonary oedema, disseminated intravascular coagulation, acute renal, heart and liver failure, sepsis, haemorrhage and intubation in relation to severe pre-eclampsia. We derived adjusted risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI), from hierarchical Poisson regression models. Severe pre-eclampsia was associated with an 8.7-fold (95% CI 7.6, 10.1) risk of composite maternal complications, with similar RRs across levels of hospital volumes. However, compared with hospitals with low annual volume (<2000), maternal mortality rates in relation to severe pre-eclampsia were lower in high volume hospitals. The rates of serious maternal complications were 410.7 per 10 000 to women who delivered in hospitals with a high rate of severe pre-eclampsia (≥2.12%) and 584.8 per 10 000 to women who delivered in hospitals with low severe pre-eclampsia rates (≤0.41; RR 1.75, 95% CI 1.24, 2.45). While the risks of serious maternal complications in relation to severe pre-eclampsia was similar across hospital delivery volume categories, deaths showed lower rates in large delivery volume hospitals than in smaller volume hospitals. The risk of complications was increased in hospitals with low compared with high severe pre-eclampsia rates. Hospital volume had little impact on the association between severe pre-eclampsia and maternal complications.

No abstract available.

No abstract available.

To assess differences in small-for-gestational age (SGA) classifications for the detection of neonates with increased perinatal mortality risk among obese women and subsequently assess the association between prepregnancy body mass index (BMI) status and SGA. Hospital-based cohort. Twelve US clinical centres (2002-08). A total of 114 626 singleton, nonanomalous pregnancies. Data were collected using electronic medical record abstraction. Relative risks (RR) with 95% CI were estimated. SGA trends (birthweight < 10th centile) classified using population-based (SGA The overall perinatal mortality prevalence was 0.55% and this increased significantly with increasing BMI (P < 0.01). Among obese women, SGA Among obese women, the intrauterine reference best identified neonates at risk of perinatal mortality. Based on SGA SGA is less common among obese women but these SGA babies are at a high risk of death.

To investigate the effects of maternal and paternal depression on the risk for preterm birth. National cohort study. Medical Birth Register of Sweden, 2007-2012. A total of 366 499 singleton births with linked information for parents' filled drug prescriptions and hospital care. Prenatal depression was defined as having filled a prescription for an antidepressant drug or having been in outpatient or inpatient hospital care with a diagnosis of depression from 12 months before conception until 24 weeks after conception. An indication of depression after 12 months with no depression was defined as 'new depression', whereas all other cases were defined as 'recurrent depression'. Odds ratios (ORs) for very preterm (22-31 weeks of gestation) and moderately preterm (32-36 weeks of gestation) births were estimated using multinomial logistic regression models. After adjustment for maternal depression and sociodemographic covariates, new paternal prenatal depression was associated with very preterm birth [adjusted OR (aOR) 1.38, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.04-1.83], whereas recurrent paternal depression was not associated with an increased risk of preterm birth. Both new and recurrent maternal prenatal depression were associated with an increased risk of moderately preterm birth (aOR 1.34, 95% CI 1.22-1.46, and aOR 1.42, 95% CI 1.32-1.53, respectively). New paternal and maternal prenatal depression are potential risk factors for preterm birth. Mental health problems in both parents should be addressed for the prevention of preterm birth. Depression in both mothers and fathers is associated with an increased risk of preterm birth.

To estimate the association between prenatal exposure to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and motor development in children considering the effect of maternal symptoms of anxiety and depression before, during and after pregnancy. Population-based prospective pregnancy cohort study. The Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort study (MoBa) (1999-2008). A total of 51 404 singleton pregnancies. Self-reported use of SSRIs was collected for the 6 months before pregnancy and prospectively during pregnancy. We used ordinal logistic regression as the statistical analysis. Motor development was assessed by maternal reports of fine and gross motor development at child age 3 years by items from the Ages and Stages Questionnaire (ASQ). The maternal ASQ scores were compared with data from a MoBa sub-study where clinicians assessed motor development with the Gross and Fine Motor Mullen scales of early learning. In all 381 women (0.7%) reported use of SSRIs during pregnancy, of these 159 reported on at least two questionnaires (prolonged use). Prolonged SSRI exposure was associated with a delay in fine motor development, odds ratio 1.42 (95% CI 1.07-1.87) compared with no SSRI exposure, after adjusting for symptoms of anxiety and depression before and during pregnancy. Severity of maternal depression seemed to explain the association only partially. Stratifying on depression after pregnancy had no impact on the estimated effect of SSRIs. Prolonged prenatal exposure to SSRIs was weakly associated with a delayed motor development at age 3 years, but not to the extent that the delay was of clinical importance. Long-term prenatal SSRI exposure is weakly associated with delayed motor development independent of depression.

We present a surface-enhanced Raman probe (SERS) platform for the determination of a prohibited substance, recombinant erythropoietin (rEPO), in urine matrix, using nanoparticles as substrate. Rod-shaped gold nanoparticles (GNR) were modified with a Raman label and an antibody as SERS probe. We developed two SERS-based immunoassays for detection and quantification of rEPO in urine. In the first assay, rEPO was determined by a sandwich assay with gold surfaces and GNR. In the second assay, rEPO was extracted by using core shell-structured magnetic iron oxide gold nanoparticles, and again sandwich assay was performed by using GNR. We also demonstrated the ability of the proposed method to discriminate rEPO and urinary erythropoietin (uEPO). A good linear correlation was obtained between logarithms of rEPO concentrations in urine and Raman intensities within the range of 10

The analysis of feed composition in terms of ingredients is addressed by Regulation (EC) 767/2009 and is important for detecting economic fraud and for monitoring feed safety. Within the framework of the EU project Feed-code, we developed and internally validated a modular assay, relying on intron polymorphism, for the complete qualitative analysis of the botanical composition of feed and the quantitative determination of six target plant species. Main performance parameters of each module, such as applicability, repeatability, specificity, and limit of detection, were evaluated. The whole assay was applied to a set of feed-like samples and results were in agreement with the expected composition. Application to a large set of compound feed and individual raw materials revealed the occurrence of botanical impurities. When compared with microscopic analysis, the proposed method gave more reliable results. We conclude that the Feed-code prototype, readily upgradable to include more plant species, is worthy of consideration for a full validation through a collaborative trial. Graphical Abstract The modular Feed-code method for the authentication of feed botanical composition.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Serious gaming can support learning and development. The use of serious games for skills development and the rehearsal of the management of events that cannot be replicated in real life is well established. Few serious games have been used in mental health services, and none in forensic mental health care. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: How a serious game may be coproduced by forensic mental health service users and game developers The acceptability of the therapeutic use of serious gaming by forensic mental health service users and providers. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Computer games may be used by practitioners in their therapeutic work with forensic mental health service users. Mental health nurses to use serious games to creatively and safely bridge the gap for service users between receiving care in controlled environments and living more independent in the community. Introduction Assessment of users' skills and confidence to safely respond to risky community-based situations underpins discharge planning. Serious games have been used for skills development, and this study trialled their use in forensic mental health services. Aim The aim was to develop and test the acceptability and usability of an innovative serious game to support forensic mental health service users' preparation for discharge. Method A prototype serious game was developed by service users and researchers. Acceptability and usability testing was undertaken and service providers interviewed about the acceptability of serious gaming for forensic mental health services. Result A prototype game was produced and successfully trialled by service users. However, both service users and providers identified that work needed to be done to develop and test a game with greater complexity. Discussion The acceptability and usability of using serious games to support service users to develop skills needed for successful discharge was demonstrated. Implications for practice Mental health practitioners may use gaming to support their practice and work innovatively with other professions such as game developers to create new ways of working in forensic mental health services.

The involvement of fathers in caregiving has increased substantially over the past 30 years. Yet in child and adolescent psychopathology, few studies include fathers as research participants and few present results for fathers separate from those for mothers. We test for the first time whether a similar pattern exists in research on parenting and childhood obesity. To conduct a systematic review and quantitative content analysis of observational studies on parenting and childhood obesity to (1) document the inclusion of fathers, relative to mothers, as research participants and (2) examine characteristics of studies that did and did not include fathers. This study presents new data on the number and gender of parent research participants. We searched title, abstract, and Medical Subject Headings term fields in 5 research databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Academic Search Premier, PsycINFO, and CINAHL) using terms combining parents or parenting (e.g., mother, father, caregiver, parenting style, food parenting) and obesity (e.g., obesity, body weight, overweight) or obesity-related lifestyle behaviors (e.g., diet, snacking, physical activity, outdoor play, exercise, media use). We identified and screened studies as per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) published between January 2009 and December 2015, examining links between parenting and childhood obesity, including parents or caregivers as research participants, and written in English. We excluded interventions, nonhuman studies, dissertations, conference abstracts, and studies on youths with specific medical conditions. Of 5557 unique studies, 667 studies were eligible. For each of the 667 studies, 4 coders were trained to code characteristics of the study (e.g., publication year, geographic region, journal, study focus) and parent research participants (e.g., parent gender, demographic background, biological relationship with child, and residential status). We established intercoder reliability before coding the full sample of studies (mean Krippendorf's alpha = .79; average percentage agreement = 94%). Of the studies, 1% included only fathers. By contrast, 36% included only mothers. Although slightly more than 50% of studies (n = 347) included at least 1 father, only 57 studies reported results for fathers separate from those for mothers. When we combined them with studies including only fathers, 10% of studies overall reported results for fathers. Samples sizes of fathers were small compared with mothers. Of studies with fathers, 59% included 50 or fewer fathers, whereas 22% of studies with mothers included 50 or fewer mothers. The mean sample size for fathers across all eligible studies was 139, compared with 672 for mothers. Overall, fathers represented 17% of parent participants across all eligible studies. This study unequivocally demonstrates that fathers are underrepresented in recent observational research on parenting and childhood obesity. Public health implications. The underrepresentation of fathers in obesity research compromises the development of effective family interventions for childhood obesity prevention. Targeted opportunities and incentives are needed to support research with fathers.

Rarely do we know the perception toward neighbourhoods in people specifically with health conditions. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to understand the perception toward neighbourhoods among adults with a series of the existing health conditions in a country-wide and population-based setting. Data were retrieved from and analysed in Scottish Household Survey, 2007-2008. Information on demographics, self-reported health conditions and perception toward neighbourhoods and the surrounding facilities was obtained by household interview. Analysis including chi-square test, t test and logistic regression modelling were performed. Of 19,150 Scottish adults (aged 16-80) included in the study cohort, 1079 (7.7 %) people were dissatisfied with their living areas; particularly for those who experienced harassment (15.4 %), did not recycle or with dyslexia, chest, digestive, mental and musculoskeletal problems. Twenty to forty per cent reported common neighbourhood problems including noise, rubbish, disputes, graffiti, harassment and drug misuse. People with heart or digestive problems were more dissatisfied with the existing parks and open space. People with arthritis, chest or hearing problems were more dissatisfied with the waste management condition. People with dyslexia were more dissatisfied with the existing public transportation. People with heart problems were more dissatisfied with the current street cleaning condition. People with hearing, vision, speech, learning problems or dyslexia were also more dissatisfied with sports and recreational facilities. People with heart, chest, skin, digestive, musculoskeletal, vision, learning, speech and mental disorders and dyslexia were more dissatisfied with their current neighbourhood environments. Upgrading neighbourhood planning to tackle social environment injustice and put pleasant life experience as priorty would be suggested. Graphical abstract interrelations of individual health and neighbourhood health.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Loneliness in older adults has been identified as an important public health issue in many countries. Widowhood is a time when many older people experience loneliness. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Little is known about strategies that are effective in mitigating experiences of loneliness and this paper explores this with older people who have been through the process. The narratives of the older people in this study described a trajectory in which loneliness was experienced as both a loss of spouse and a loss of routines that enabled them to maintain connections with others. This trajectory moved onto the establishment of new routines that enabled connections to be developed. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Loneliness is strongly associated with depression and anxiety in the elderly and mental health nurses should be encouraged to screen for loneliness when undertaking assessments. Interventions that facilitate the development of meaningful routines could be integrated into mental health nursing care of older people. Background Loneliness in older people is a public health concern in many Western countries. While not necessarily a symptom of mental disorder, it is often associated with depression and anxiety. Widowhood is a transition period during which many older people experience acute loneliness but over time develops strategies to manage it. Little is known about effective strategies that older people have used to manage the experience. The strategies older people used to manage this was the focus of this paper. Aim The aim was to examine older widows' experiences of loneliness. Design The design of this study was a qualitative narrative analysis with thematic analysis and the participants were 40 older widow/widowers aged between 70 and 97 years. Findings The study found that the participants negotiated the experience of loneliness following widowhood from an acute phase of experiencing an absence and the associated loss of routine connection to the establishment of new routines that provided new connections and a new sense of identity as an individual rather than a couple. Conclusions It is important for mental health nurses to screen for loneliness and be able to facilitate interventions that may alleviate the experience of loneliness.

The medicalisation of sleep is a rich and growing area of sociological interest. Previous research suggests that medicalisation is occurring within the context of physician office visits, but the inner workings remain unclear. This study is the first to provide perspectives on the office visit interaction from both sleepless patients (n = 27) and the physicians (n = 8) who treat them. Analyses of semi-structured qualitative interviews reveal that sleep-related conversations are typically patient-initiated in routine office visits. Physicians and patients conceptualised insomnia as a symptom of another issue (depression), an everyday problem of living (stress) or the result of a natural life process (aging). Lack of sleep was not necessarily linked to daytime impairment. Even though sleep aids were routinely requested and prescribed, patients and physicians consistently expressed attitudes of reluctance toward the use of sedative hypnotics. I call this a case of 'reluctant medicalisation' and highlight the liminal space between pathology and normalcy inhabited by patients and physicians. I also build on recent work acknowledging the dynamics between macro and micro levels of medicalisation and illustrate the influence of multilevel 'engines' (consumerism, biotechnology, managed care and physicians) in patients' and physicians' accounts. A virtual abstract of this paper can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/7uLHOJPHF0I.

Brands are critical to tobacco marketing. Industry stakeholders predicted that plain packaging, by removing key tangible branding dimensions, would restrict new products and brand differentiation. However, manufacturers respond innovatively to limit regulatory impact. This study investigates brand strategy following plain packaging's introduction to Australia. Brand portfolios were determined using 2006-15 tobacco ingredient reports. These detail the brand and variant names sold and are provided annually as part of a voluntary agreement between the Australian Government and leading manufacturers. Post-plain packaging brand ranges were verified using retail price lists and a supermarket retail audit using a method used previously to verify a period of pre-plain packaging data. The verification process identified some data inaccuracies from one manufacturer which resulted in the issuing of corrected data. After plain packaging the leading manufacturers continued with extensive brand ranges differentiated by price. All launched new products. While total brand numbers fell from 29 to 24, the mean number of variants for the leading 12 brands grew from 8.9 to 9.7. Substantial variant name modifications occurred with 50 new or modified names in 2012-13. Among leading brands, the incidence of variant colour names increased from 49.5 to 79.3%. New brands and variants were not inhibited by the introduction of plain packaging in Australia. After plain packaging, leading brand variant numbers expanded by 9 to 116 and colour variant names increased by 73.6% and became the norm-lighter colours (blue, gold and silver) dominated, perpetuating notions of less harmful cigarettes. [Correction added on 09 September 2016, after first online publication: The figures in the last sentence of the Abstract are now corrected from 'expanded by 116' to 'expanded by 9 to 116'.].

HPLC is considered the method of choice for the separation of various classes of drugs. However, some analytes are still challenging as HPLC shows limited resolution capabilities for highly polar analytes as they interact insufficiently on conventional reversed-phase (RP) columns. Especially in combination with mass spectrometric detection, limitations apply for alterations of stationary phases. Some highly polar sympathomimetic drugs and their metabolites showed almost no retention on different RP columns. Their retention remains poor even on phenylhexyl phases that show different selectivity due to π-π interactions. Supercritical fluid chromatography (SFC) as an orthogonal separation technique to HPLC may help to overcome these issues. Selected polar drugs and metabolites were analyzed utilizing SFC separation. All compounds showed sharp peaks and good retention even for the very polar analytes, such as sulfoconjugates. Retention times and elution orders in SFC are different to both RP and HILIC separations as a result of the orthogonality. Short cycle times could be realized. As temperature and pressure strongly influence the polarity of supercritical fluids, precise regulation of temperature and backpressure is required for the stability of the retention times. As CO2 is the main constituent of the mobile phase in SFC, solvent consumption and solvent waste are considerably reduced. Graphical Abstract SFC-MS/MS vs. LC-MS/MS.

To estimate creatine concentrations in maternal plasma and urine, and establish relationships with maternal characteristics, diet and fetal growth. Retrospective cohort study. Lyell McEwin Hospital, Adelaide, Australia. A biobank of plasma and urine samples collected at 13, 18, 30 and 36 weeks' gestation from 287 pregnant women from a prospective cohort of asthmatic and non-asthmatic women. Creatine was measured by enzymatic analysis. Change in creatine over pregnancy was assessed using the Friedman test. Linear mixed models regression was used to determine associations between maternal factors and diet with creatine across pregnancy and between creatine with indices of fetal growth at birth. Maternal creatine concentrations, associations between maternal factors and creatine and between creatine and fetal growth parameters. Maternal smoking, body mass index, asthma and socio-economic status were positively and parity negatively associated with maternal plasma and/or urine creatine. Maternal urine creatine concentration was positively associated with birthweight centile and birth length. After adjustment, each μmol/l increase in maternal urinary creatine was associated with a 1.23 (95% CI 0.44-2.02) unit increase in birthweight centile and a 0.11-cm (95% CI 0.03-0.2) increase in birth length. Maternal factors and fetal growth measures are associated with maternal plasma and urine creatine concentrations. Maternal creatine is altered by pregnancy; fetal growth measures are associated with maternal creatine concentrations.

The numerical model MUKLIMO_3 is used to simulate the urban climate of an imaginary city as an illustrative example to demonstrate that the residential areas with deprived socio-economic conditions can exhibit an enhanced heat load at night, and thus more disadvantageous environmental conditions, compared with the areas of higher socio-economic status. The urban climate modelling simulations differentiate between orographic, natural landscape, building and social effects, where social differences are introduced by selection of location, building type and amount of vegetation. The model results show that the increase of heat load can be found in the areas inhabited by the poor population as a combined effect of natural and anthropogenic factors. The unfavourable location in the city and the building type, consisting of high density, low housing with high fraction of pavement and small amount of vegetation contribute to the formation of excessive heat load. This abstract example shows that the enhancement of urban heat load can be linked to the concept of a socially stratified city and is independent of the historical development of any specific city.

The rising prevalence of obesity, particularly in childhood, is a global public health emergency. There is some evidence that exposure to non-parental childcare before age 6 years is associated with subsequent development of obesity and obesity-related behaviours such as physical activity, sedentary behaviour, sleep, diet and stress, although these findings are inconsistent. It is possible that the relationship between early childcare and later obesity and obesity-related behaviours depends on characteristics of childcare exposure such as type (i.e. informal versus formal care), duration (i.e. number of years spent in childcare), intensity (e.g. number of hours per week) and timing (i.e. age of onset of childcare) of care received. The relationship may also be moderated by socio-demographic characteristics of children and their families. We will conduct a systematic review exploring longitudinal associations between childcare (type, duration, intensity and timing) and measures of adiposity and body mass, physical activity, sedentary behaviour, sleep, diet and stress. We will also assess whether these relationships vary by socio-demographic factors. We will include studies that explore longitudinal associations between childcare attendance in children aged <6 years not in primary school at first assessment and body weight, adiposity, physical activity, diet, sleep and stress. We will limit studies to those involving middle- and high-income countries. Two independent reviewers will screen search results in two stages: (1) title and abstract and (2) and full text. One reviewer will extract relevant data and a second will verify this information. We will assess risk of bias of included studies using an adaption of the United States Department of Agriculture National Evidence Library Bias Assessment Tool. We will tabulate and summarise results narratively. We may conduct meta-analysis if at least five studies report comparable data. To our knowledge, this will be the first systematic review to summarise the existing evidence on longitudinal associations between childcare and adiposity, body mass and obesity-related risk factors. The results will be of relevance to other researchers, childcare practitioners and policy makers. PROSPERO CRD42015027233.

No abstract available.

This article reviews the history of social justice in nursing and argues that education needs to be redesigned to allow nurses to return to the profession's social justice roots. A review of social justice literature in nursing practice and education was conducted. Although social justice is a recurring theme in the literature, definitions are abstract, calls to action are ambiguous, and theoretical frameworks continue to emphasize the individual nurse-patient dyad. Nursing education needs to be redesigned to incorporate social justice concepts throughout the entire curriculum. By educating the current and future nursing workforce, the profession can return to its roots of social justice to address structural inequalities and social injustices that manifest as health inequities in the United States.

The purpose of this study was to determine the publication rate of manuscripts presented at the Southern Orthopaedic Association's (SOA) annual meetings. An extensive literature search was performed using Google Scholar and PubMed search engines and all accepted abstracts (posters or podium presentations) presented at an SOA annual meeting from 2005 to 2011 were evaluated. A total of 568 abstracts were presented at SOA meetings between 2005 and 2011. Of these, 234 (41%) were published in the peer-reviewed literature. The publication rate was 66% in 2005 and 28% in 2010. The average time from presentation to peer-reviewed publication was 1.6 ± 0.24 years (range, 2 years in 2006 to 1 year in 2011). The SOA publication rate was comparable with other major orthopaedic conference publication rates, yet more than half of all abstracts remain unpublished. SOA attendees should be aware that approximately 40% of all accepted presentations will go unpublished.

A gap analysis survey of international practices for Active Substance Master Files (ASMFs)/Drug Master Files (DMFs) of human use was conducted as a project of the ASMF/DMF working group of the International Generic Drug Regulators Pilot (IGDRP) to identify similarities and differences among ASMF/DMF procedures of 10 IGDRP members and 2 observers. We conducted a questionnaire survey and compared the following aspects: overall ASMF/DMF procedures, submission requirements for ASMFs/DMFs, assessment processes for ASMFs/DMFs, the technical requirements for active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), generation of assessment reports for ASMFs/DMFs, procedures for changing ASMF/DMF details, and Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) inspection/certification of API manufacturers. Twelve organizations participated in this project: the Brazilian Health Surveillance Agency (Anvisa), the European Union (EU), Health Canada (HC), the Singapore Health Sciences Authority (HSA), the South African Medicines Control Council (MCC), the South Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS), the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products (Swissmedic), the Taiwan Food and Drug Administration (TFDA), the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines &amp; HealthCare (EDQM) (Observer) and the Prequalification Team (PQT) of the World Health Organization (WHO), which includes the PQT-Medicines (Observer). Although there were many similarities among the participating agencies surveyed, there were also differences that should be discussed such as assessment processes of ASMFs/DMFs and Technical requirements for APIs. These differences revealed by this survey will be key considerations in order to facilitate the filing of ASMFs/DMFs globally and to establish a framework for sharing and utilizing information related to ASMFs/DMFs among IGDRP members in the future. This article is open to POST-PUBLICATION REVIEW. Registered readers (see "For Readers") may comment by clicking on ABSTRACT on the issue's contents page.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Empowerment of family caregivers of adults with mental health issues has received increasing attention among mental health nurses in Japan and has been recognized as a new goal of family interventions. The Family Empowerment Scale (FES) was originally developed to measure the empowerment status of parents of children with emotional disorders. However, it was later applied to broader health issues. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We developed a Japanese version of the FES for family caregivers of adults with mental health issues (FES-AMJ) and examined the validity and reliability among parents. Results showed that the FES-AMJ had acceptable concurrent validity and reliability; however, insufficient construct validity was found, especially for the subscale regarding the service system. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Further studies need to modify the scale. Clarification of ideal family empowerment status in the service system through discussion with mental health nurses and family caregivers may be important. Introduction The Family Empowerment Scale (FES) was originally developed for parents of children with emotional disorders. In Japan, family empowerment is gaining increasing attention and may be one goal of nursing interventions. Aim To develop a Japanese version of the FES for family caregivers of adults with mental health issues and to study the validity and reliability of this scale among parents. Method We translated the FES into Japanese and administered this self-report questionnaire to 275 parents. Results The multitrait scaling analysis revealed acceptable convergent validity and insufficient discriminant validity among all subscales. In particular, all items of the Service system subscale had insufficient discriminant and/or convergent validity. Each subscale significantly correlated with the indicator of empowerment. The intraclass correlation coefficients of each subscale were .855-.917. Cronbach's alpha of each factor ranged from .867 to .895. Discussion The Service system subscale may not linearly reflect family empowerment, and instead may depend on unclear roles of family caregivers of adults, disorder severity or insufficient services. Implications for practice Further studies need to modify the scale. Clarification of ideal family empowerment status in the service system through discussion with mental health nurses and family caregivers may be important.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Despite the increased interest in nursing students' happiness in South Korea, few studies have attempted to identify factors influencing their happiness. Therefore, nursing educators should consistently investigate the factors influencing happiness and develop strategies to improve happiness among Korean nursing students. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study confirmed that there were positive correlations between grateful disposition, social support and happiness. In addition, grateful disposition and support from intimate people were identified as predictors of happiness in Korean nursing students. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Development of intervention programmes to help nursing students increase grateful disposition and support from intimate people may be helpful for improving happiness. These programmes can include activity, such as writing a gratitude journal, and extracurricular programmes, such as mentoring programmes between seniors and juniors and/or professor and student. Introduction Happiness is very important in the training and development of nursing students as future nurses. However, nursing students experience a high level of stress and low level of happiness in South Korea. Aim This study aimed to investigate factors that affect happiness among nursing students in South Korea. Method Data were collected from a total of 241 nursing enrolled in two 4-year baccalaureate nursing programmes in South Korea, using a self-administrated questionnaire. To identify predictors of happiness, stepwise regression analysis was conducted. Results The results indicated that grateful disposition and support from intimate people significantly predict happiness among Korean nursing students. These two factors accounted for 38.0% of the variance in happiness. Discussion This study indicated grateful disposition and support from intimate people as factors promoting happiness in nursing students. The findings highlight grateful disposition and support from intimate people as important factors when developing effective interventions that foster nursing students' happiness.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Problematic parent-child relationships have been identified as one of the main predictors of adolescents' mental health problems, but there are few existing interventions that address this issue. The format and delivery method of existing interventions for parents are relatively inaccessible for parents with full-time jobs and families living in rural areas. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The newly developed 'Stepping Stone' culturally specific web-based intervention, which is intended to help Korean parents of adolescents to acquire both knowledge and communication and conflict management skills, was found to be feasible and well-accepted by parents. This study enabled us to identify areas for improvement in the content and format of the intervention and strategies. This will potentially increase effect sizes for the outcome variables of parents' perception and behaviours. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This web-based intervention could be delivered across diverse settings, such as schools and community mental health centers, to increase parents' knowledge of adolescent's mental health and allow for early detection of mental health problems. Mental health nurses working in schools may spend a significant amount of time addressing students' mental health issues; thus, this web-based intervention could be a useful resource to share with parents and children. In this way, the mental health nurses could facilitate parental engagement in the intervention and then help them to continue to apply and practice the knowledge and skills obtained through the program. Introduction There is a need for accessible, culturally specific web-based interventions to address parent-child relationships and adolescents' mental health. Aims This study developed and conducted a preliminary evaluation of a 4-week web-based intervention for parents of adolescents aged 11 to 16 years in Korea. Methods We used a two-group, repeated measures, quasi-experimental study design to assess the feasibility of developing and implementing a web-based intervention for parents. Descriptive statistics, chi-square and t tests, and mixed effect modeling were used for data analysis. Results The intervention and 1-month follow-up survey were completed by 47 parents in the intervention group and 46 parents in the attention control (AC) group. The intervention was found to be feasible and well-accepted by parents. Discussion This culturally specific web-based intervention is a useful tool for knowledge dissemination among large numbers of parents. Areas for improvement in the content and format of the intervention and strategies to elicit significant parent-child interactions are provided. Implications for practice and conclusion The intervention could be disseminated in collaboration with mental health nurses working in schools to facilitate parents' participation.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: An essential part of the mental health assessment is to evaluate the risk of harm to self. Fundamentally this involves asking directly about self-harming behaviour and suicidal thoughts or urges, but practitioners often find it difficult to open up these conversations. This evaluation of risk is particularly important as self-harm and suicidal thoughts are frequently found in young people who attend mental health services. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Young people are not always routinely asked directly about self-harm or suicidal thoughts when they are assessed. There are two ways that mental health practitioners introduce this topic: first, by building up to it by initially asking about general feelings, and second by stating that it is a requirement to ask everyone. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: These questions should not be avoided by mental health practitioners just because they are difficult. We offer suggestions as to how to ask questions about self-harm and suicide based on real-world practice. Introduction Questions about self-harm and suicide are essential in risk assessments with children and young people, yet little is known about how mental health practitioners do this. Aim The core aim was to examine how questions about self-harm and suicidal ideation are asked in real-world practice. Method A qualitative design was employed to analyse 28 video-recorded naturally occurring mental health assessments in a child and adolescent mental health service. Data were analysed using conversation analysis (CA). Results In 13 cases young people were asked about self-harm and suicide, but 15 were not. Analysis revealed how practitioners asked these questions. Two main styles were revealed. First was an incremental approach, beginning with inquiries about emotions and behaviours, building to asking about self-harm and suicidal intent. Second was to externalize the question as being required by outside agencies. Discussion The study concluded that the design of risk questions to young people had implications for how open they were to engaging with the practitioner. Implications for practice The study has implications for training and practice for psychiatric nurses and other mental health practitioners in feeling more confident in communicating with young people about self-harm and suicidal ideation.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: According to estimates more than half of adult mental health service users are parents, but their experiences are largely lacking from research literature. Parental mental illness can often be viewed from a risk perspective. Parents with mental illness and their families have unmet support needs. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Parents with mental illness want acknowledgement that they can be able and responsible. Many parents adopt an expert by experience identity. Fathers can feel their parental role is not recognized and mothers express fears of being judged if they discuss their illness. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Adult mental health services need to recognize and support parental role of service users. Joint care planning and family oriented care should be promoted. Professionals should take advantage of the knowledge of these parents and they could be more actively engaged in service development. Introduction Parental mental illness is often viewed from a risk perspective. Despite this, being a parent can be both valuable and motivating. Research literature lacks the perspective of mothers and fathers, who have experienced mental illness. Aim This study explores how parents with mental illness construct their identities as mothers and fathers and their experiences with health and social care services. Method Three focus groups with 19 participants were conducted in Finland and Scotland. Methods of discourse analysis have been used in to analyse the interview data. Results Adult service users want their parenting role recognized and supported. Parents have knowledge and skills which can be utilized and many have adopted an expert by experience identity. Discussion Being able to see oneself as a 'good' parent can be challenging but important. Parents may require support, but want to be included in the planning of their care. Services could make more use of the knowledge and skills parents and families have, and joint working could lessen parents' anxieties. Implications for practice Mental health practitioners are in a key position in providing more family centred, resource focused care. Service user expertise should be acknowledged in clinical practice.

Campbell and colleagues developed an evaluation Toolkit for use by sexual assault nurse examiners (SANEs) to assess criminal case outcomes in adult sexual assault cases seen by SANE programs (Campbell, Townsend, Shaw, Karim, & Markowitz, 2014; Campbell, Bybee, et al., 2014). The Toolkit provides step-by-step directions and an easy-to-use statistical program. This study describes implementation of the Toolkit in Salt Lake County, the first site outside the pilot sites to utilize the program. The Toolkit revealed that, in Salt Lake County from 2003 to 2011, only 6% of adult sexual assault cases were successfully prosecuted. These findings prompted multiple community discussions, media attention, and a call to action to improve the investigation and prosecution of adult sexual assault cases. The primary purpose of this case report is to encourage other SANE teams and communities to use the Toolkit by sharing the successful experience of Salt Lake County in implementing the Toolkit.Video Abstract available for additional insights from Dr. Valentine (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JFN/A19).

WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE SUBJECT?: Loneliness among people diagnosed with schizophrenia is a serious problem. Recent studies have focused on the loneliness; however, no study has examined the relationships between loneliness and both individual and environmental factors comprehensively. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The main results indicated that the community-dwelling people diagnosed with schizophrenia in Japan as well as in other countries experienced higher levels of loneliness. Both individual and environmental factors were related to loneliness. Increasing the self-efficacy for community life and self-esteem of individual factors, and not being socially isolated and increasing community integration of environmental factors would improve their loneliness. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Health practitioners, in particular, public health nurses in mental health care, should work to develop a partnership with people diagnosed with schizophrenia, their family members, friends and other community-dwelling people in order to decrease and prevent loneliness. For individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia, interventions by cooperating with community resources and using the technique of nurses to assist them with continuous community activity could be useful. For environmental interventions, population approach such as developing daily programmes which family members can participate in, and cooperating with educational institutions and community events could have a positive effects. Introduction Loneliness among people diagnosed with schizophrenia living in communities can decrease quality of life and may contribute to suicide. Aim The aim of this study was to examine the levels of loneliness among Japanese people diagnosed with schizophrenia and to identify individual and environmental factors related to their loneliness. Method A cross-sectional survey was conducted with 264 people diagnosed with schizophrenia who use local activity support centres in urban areas. The self-administered questionnaires included questions on loneliness, demographic characteristics, individual factors including self-efficacy for community life and self-esteem, and environmental factors including social isolation, community integration and service use. Results The study results indicated that people diagnosed with schizophrenia in Japan experience higher levels of loneliness, corroborating results from other countries. Multiple regression analysis showed that a lower level of self-efficacy for community life, self-esteem, community integration and social isolation predicted a higher level of loneliness, accounting for 55.3% of variance. Implications for Practice Public health nurses in mental health care in Japan can work with individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia and communities using the technique to assist them with continuous activity and cooperating with community resources and educational institutions in order to decrease and prevent loneliness.

OBJECTIVE Despite the growing neurosurgical literature, a subset of pioneering studies have significantly impacted the field of metastatic spine disease. The purpose of this study was to identify and analyze the 100 most frequently cited articles in the field. METHODS A keyword search using the Thomson Reuters Web of Science was conducted to identify articles relevant to the field of metastatic spine disease. The results were filtered based on title and abstract analysis to identify the 100 most cited articles. Statistical analysis was used to characterize journal frequency, past and current citations, citation distribution over time, and author frequency. RESULTS The total number of citations for the final 100 articles ranged from 74 to 1169. Articles selected for the final list were published between 1940 and 2009. The years in which the greatest numbers of top-100 studies were published were 1990 and 2005, and the greatest number of citations occurred in 2012. The majority of articles were published in the journals Spine (15), Cancer (11), and the Journal of Neurosurgery (9). Forty-four individuals were listed as authors on 2 articles, 9 were listed as authors on 3 articles, and 2 were listed as authors on 4 articles in the top 100 list. The most cited article was the work by Batson (1169 citations) that was published in 1940 and described the role of the vertebral veins in the spread of metastases. The second most cited article was Patchell's 2005 study (594 citations) discussing decompressive resection of spinal cord metastases. The third most cited article was the 1978 study by Gilbert that evaluated treatment of epidural spinal cord compression due to metastatic tumor (560 citations). CONCLUSIONS The field of metastatic spine disease has witnessed numerous milestones and so it is increasingly important to recognize studies that have influenced the field. In this bibliographic study the authors identified and analyzed the most influential articles in the field of metastatic spine disease.

The relationship between the built environment and physical activity has been well documented. However, little is known about how the built environment affects physical activity among people with disabilities, who have disproportionately higher rates of physical inactivity and obesity. This study is the first systematic review to examine the role of the built environment as a moderator of the relationship between having a disability (physical, sensory or cognitive) and lower levels of physical activity. After conducting an extensive search of the literature published between 1990 and 2015, 2039 articles were screened, 126 were evaluated by abstract and 66 by full text for eligibility in the review. Data were abstracted using a predefined coding guide and synthesized from both qualitative and quantitative studies to examine evidence of moderation. Nine quantitative and six qualitative articles met the inclusion criteria. Results showed that most research to date has been on older adults with physical disabilities. People with disabilities described how aspects of the built environment affect neighborhood walking, suggesting a positive moderating role of features related to safety and aesthetic qualities, such as benches, lighting and stop light timing. There were mixed results among studies that examined the relationship quantitatively. Most of the studies were not designed to appropriately examine moderation. Future research should utilize valid and reliable built environment measures that are more specific to disability and should include people with and without disabilities to allow for testing of moderation of the built environment.

Transfers from hospital or 'hospice palliative care units' to care homes for end-of-life care are an increasingly common part of clinical practice but are a source of anxiety and distress for patients, relatives and healthcare professionals. To understand the experiences of patients discharged to care homes for end-of-life care. Systematic review and narrative synthesis of the UK literature concerning inpatient transfer from a hospital or hospice palliative care unit to a care home for end-of-life care. The published literature is very limited: only three papers and one conference abstract were identified, all of low quality using Gough's weight of evidence assessment. No papers examined transfer from hospital: all were of transfers from hospices and were retrospective case note reviews. Many patients were reported to have been negative or ambivalent about moving and experienced feelings of anxiety or abandonment when transferred. Relatives were often either vehemently opposed or ambivalent. Although some came to accept transfer, others reported the transfer to have seriously affected their loved one's quality of life and that the process of finding a care home had been traumatic. No studies investigated patients' views prospectively, the views of staff or the processes of decision-making. The UK literature is very limited, despite such transfers being an increasingly common part of clinical practice and a source of concern to patients, relatives and staff alike. Further research is urgently needed in this area, especially studies of patients themselves, in order to understand their experiences and views.

[No Abstract Available].

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Since the promulgation of the one-child policy in 1979, most families have had only one child. Shidu parents, as a special group of Sichuan 2008 earthquake victims, are parents who lost their only child in the earthquake. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADDED TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Shidu parents are an especially vulnerable group in China. This study was the first systematic population-based investigation to explore quality of life (QOL) risk factors and to examine the moderating role of social support between post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and QOL in Shidu parents. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The results found that further social support should be provided as a long-term mental health intervention strategy to promote QOL in Shidu parents suffering from PTSD. The research may provide information to assist psychologists in post-disaster mental health interventions with Shidu parents and to inspire decision makers who work with similar groups in other countries. Introduction Because of the one-child policy in force in China from 1979 to 2015, most parents were only allowed to have a single child. Of all the Sichuan earthquake victims, there was a special group called the Shidu parents who lost their only child in the earthquake. Aim The aim of this study was to identify the related risk factors for the Shidu parents' quality of life (QOL) and to examine the role of social support as a moderator between post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and QOL in Shidu parents. Method A cross-sectional sample survey was conducted to collect data from 10 heavily damaged counties in Sichuan province (n = 176). Discussion PTSD was found to be negatively associated with the Shidu parents' QOL, and social support had a major effect on moderating the association between the PTSD and QOL in Shidu parents. Implications for practice Developing suitable social support could be considered a key part of psychological intervention strategies to promote QOL in Shidu parents suffering from PTSD. This study could provide decision support for mental health professionals (e.g. nurses and psychiatrists) working on mental crisis interventions with Shidu parents.

Interprofessional Primary Care Teams (IPCTs) have been shown to benefit health systems and patients, particularly those patients with complex care needs. The literature suggests a wide range of factors that may influence collaboration in IPCTs, however the evidence base is unclear for many of these factors. To target improvement efforts, we identify studies that demonstrate an association between suggested factors and collaborative processes in IPCTs. A systematic review of 25 years of peer-review literature was conducted to identify studies that test associations between policy, organizational, care team and individual factors, and collaboration in IPCTs. We searched Medline, ProQuest subject, ProQuest abstract, CINAHL, HealthSTAR, and Embase electronic databases between January 1990 to June 2015 and hand-searched reference lists of identified articles. The electronic searches identified 1421 articles, nine of which met inclusion criteria. Eighteen factors were significantly associated with collaboration in at least one article. We present the findings within a proposed conceptual model of interrelated 'gears'. The model offers a taxonomy of factors that policy makers (macro gear), organizational managers (meso gear), care teams (micro gear) and health professionals (individual gear) can adjust to improve interprofessional collaboration in IPC teams. Thirteen of the eighteen identified factors were within the micro gear, or team level of decision-making. These pertained to formal processes such as quality audits and group problem-solving; social processes such as open communication and supportive colleagues; team attitudes such as feeling part of the team; and team structure such as team size and having a collaboration champion or facilitator. Fewer policy (eg governance), organizational (eg information systems, organizational culture) or individual (eg belief in interprofessional collaboration care and personal flexibility) level factors were identified. The findings suggest that individual IPCTs have opportunities to improve collaboration regardless of the organizational or policy context within which they operate. Evidence supports the importance of having a team vision and shared goals, formal quality processes, information systems, and professionals feeling part of the team. Few studies assessed associations between collaboration and macro and meso factors, or between factors across levels, which are priorities for future research.

This paper examines a cognitive mechanism that drives perspective-taking and egocentrism in interpersonal communication. Using a conceptual referential communication task, in which participants describe a range of abstract geometric shapes, Experiment 1 shows that perspective-taking and egocentric communication are frequent communication strategies. Experiment 2 tests a selection heuristic account of perspective-taking and egocentric communication. It uses participants' shape description ratings to predict their communication strategy. Participants' communication strategy was predicted by how informative they perceived the different shape descriptions to be. When participants' personal shape description was perceived to be more informative than their addressee's shape description, there was a strong bias to communicate egocentrically. By contrast, when their addressee's shape description was perceived to be more informative, there was a strong bias to take their addressee's perspective. When the shape descriptions were perceived to be equally informative, there was a moderate bias to communicate egocentrically. This simple, but powerful, selection heuristic may be critical to the cumulative cultural evolution of human communication systems, and cumulative cultural evolution more generally.

To summarize the available information about injection use and its determinants in the South Asian region. We searched published and unpublished literature on injection safety in South Asia published during 1995-2016 using the keywords "injection" "unsafe injection" and "immunization injection" and combined these with each of the countries and/or their respective states or provinces in South Asia. We used a standardized questionnaire to abstract the following data from the articles: the annual number of injections per capita, the proportion of injections administered with a reused syringe or needle, the distribution of injections with respect to prescribers and providers and determinants of injection use. Although information is very limited for certain countries (i.e., Bhutan, Maldives and Sri Lanka), healthcare injection use is very common across South Asia, with cross-country rates ranging from 2.4 to 13.6 injections/person/year. Furthermore, recent studies show that 5% to 50% of these injections are provided with reused syringes, thus creating potential to transmission of blood-borne pathogens. Qualified and unqualified practitioners, especially in the private sector, are the major drivers behind injection use, but patients also prefer injections, especially among the rural, poor or uneducated in certain countries. According to available data, Pakistan and India have recently taken steps towards achieving safe injection. Potential interventions include the introduction of reuse prevention devices, and patient-, community- and patient/community and provider-centered interventions to change population and practitioner behavior. Injection use is common in South Asian countries. Multilevel interventions aiming at patients, providers and the healthcare system are needed to reduce injection use and reuse.

Environmental tobacco smoke has an adverse association with preterm birth and birth weight. England introduced a new law to make virtually all enclosed public places and workplaces smoke free on July 1, 2007. We investigated the effect of smoke-free legislation on birth outcomes in England using Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) maternity data. We used regression discontinuity, a quasi-experimental study design, which can facilitate valid causal inference, to analyze short-term effects of smoke-free legislation on birth weight, low birth weight, gestational age, preterm birth, and small for gestational age. We analyzed 1,800,906 pregnancies resulting in singleton live-births in England between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2009. In the 1 to 5 months following the introduction of the smoke-free legislation, for those entering their third trimester, the risk of low birth weight decreased by between 8% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 4%, 12%) and 14% (95% CI: 5%, 23%), very low birth weight between 28% (95% CI: 19%, 36%) and 32% (95% CI: 21%, 41%), preterm birth between 4% (95% CI: 1%, 8%) and 9% (95% CI: 2%, 16%), and small for gestational age between 5% (95% CI: 2%, 8%) and 9% (95% CI: 2%, 15%). The estimated impact of the smoke-free legislation varied by maternal age, deprivation, ethnicity, and region. The introduction of smoke-free legislation in England had an immediate estimated beneficial impact on birth outcomes overall, although we did not observe improvements across all age, ethnic, or deprivation groups.See video abstract at http://links.lww.com/EDE/B85.

This study aimed to examine the factors associated with maternal mortality among women aged ≥35 years. Unmatched population based case-control study. United Kingdom. Between 2009 and 2012, 105 cases of maternal deaths aged ≥35 years were extracted from the surveillance database of the MBRRACE-UK confidential enquiries into maternal deaths in the UK. In addition, 766 controls aged ≥35 years were identified from the UK Obstetric Surveillance System (2005-2012). Risk factors known to be associated with maternal mortality and morbidity and for which data were available were examined for their association with maternal mortality among women ≥35 years using logistic regression analysis. Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals associated with maternal death. Five factors were found to be significantly associated with increased odds of death among women aged ≥35 years: smoking during pregnancy (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 2.06, 95% CI 1.13-3.75), inadequate use of antenatal care (aOR 23.62, 95% CI 8.79-63.45), medical co-morbidities (aOR 5.92, 95% CI 3.56-9.86) and previous pregnancy problems (aOR 2.06, 95% CI 1.23-3.45). The odds associated with death increased by 12% per year increase in age (aOR 1.12, 95% CI 1.02-1.22). Age was associated with maternal mortality even after adjusting for other known risk factors. Importantly, this study showed an association between maternal mortality and smoking among women aged 35 years or older. It emphasises the importance of public health action to reduce smoking levels and address trends in rising maternal age. Smoking is a risk factor for maternal death for those aged over 35 years.

The American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (ASAPS) sponsors an annual conference that promotes education, advocacy, and care. There, researchers deliver abstracts as podium and poster presentations. Subsequently, ASAPS encourages submitting these research findings for publication. Yet, many never become published manuscripts. To quantify the conversion rates of oral abstract presentations to publication from 1995 to 2010. Secondary objectives included evaluating trends in presentations, publications, time to publication, and published journal distribution. Comprehensive literature search in PubMed cross-referencing oral abstract presentations and determining peer-reviewed publication status. The conversion rate and time to publication was calculated. A total of 569 oral presentations met the inclusion criteria. The mean annual presentations was 35.6. A total of 360 presentations became journal publications. The mean annual publications was 22.5. The mean conversion rate was 63.3% (R While the number of presentations and publications declined, the time to publication, and conversion rate remained largely the same. Despite its short existence, ASJ became the predominant journal publishing ASAPS abstracts by the end of the study period.

Early nutritional deprivation might cause irreversible damage to the brain. Prenatal exposure to undernutrition has been shown to be associated with increased central nervous system anomalies at birth and decreased cognitive function in adulthood. Little is known about the potential effect on the brain in older age. We investigated brain size and structure at age 68 years after prenatal famine exposure. T1-weighted structural magnetic resonance images of the brain were made in 118 Dutch famine birth cohort members. Of these 118 (44% male, age range 65-69 years), 41 had been exposed to famine in early gestation and 77 had been prenatally unexposed. Structural volumes were automatically assessed using FreeSurfer. Diffusion tensor imaging was performed and anisotropy and diffusivity were computed. Fluid attenuated inversion recovery was performed to assess white matter hyperintensities. Exposure to famine in early gestation was associated with smaller intracranial volume in males, but not females. Volumes of total brain, grey and white matter were also smaller in early exposed males, but these differences disappeared after adjusting for intracranial volume. Prenatally exposed males but not females, had a smaller intracranial and total brain volume compared to unexposed subjects. Our findings show that prenatal undernutrition permanently affected brain size.media-1vid110.1093/brain/aww132_video_abstractaww132_video_abstract.

People with bipolar disorder (BD) have a mortality gap of up to 20 years compared to the general population. Physical conditions, such as cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer, cause the majority of excess deaths in psychiatric populations and are the leading causes of mortality in people with BD. However, comparatively little attention has been paid to reducing the risk of physical conditions in psychiatric populations. Unhealthy lifestyle behaviors are among the potentially modifiable risk factors for a range of commonly comorbid chronic medical conditions, including CVD, diabetes, and obesity. This systematic review will identify and evaluate the available evidence for effective interventions to reduce risk and promote healthy lifestyle behaviors in BD. We will search MEDLINE, Embase, PsychINFO, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and CINAHL for published research studies (with at least an abstract published in English) that evaluate behavioral or psychosocial interventions to address the following lifestyle factors in people with BD: tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, overweight or obesity, sleep-wake disturbance, and alcohol/other drug use. Primary outcomes for the review will be changes in tobacco use, level of physical activity, diet quality, sleep quality, alcohol use, and illicit drug use. Data on each primary outcome will be synthesized across available studies in that lifestyle area (e.g., tobacco abstinence, cigarettes smoked per day), and panel of research and clinical experts in each of the target lifestyle behaviors and those experienced with clinical and research with individuals with BD will determine how best to represent data related to that primary outcome. Seven members of the systematic review team will extract data, synthesize the evidence, and rate it for quality. Evidence will be synthesized via a narrative description of the behavioral interventions and their effectiveness in improving the healthy lifestyle behaviors in people with BD. The planned review will synthesize and evaluate the available evidence regarding the behavioral or psychosocial treatment of lifestyle-related behaviors in people with BD. From this review, we will identify gaps in our existing knowledge and research evidence about the management of unhealthy lifestyle behaviors in people with BD. We will also identify potential opportunities to address lifestyle behaviors in BD, with a view to reducing the burden of physical ill-health in this population. PROSPERO CRD42015019993.

In an effort to prevent continued increases in obesity and diabetes, in January 2014, the Mexican government implemented an 8% tax on nonessential foods with energy density ≥275 kcal/100 g and a peso-per-liter tax on sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs). Limited rigorous evaluations of food taxes exist worldwide. The objective of this study was to examine changes in volume of taxed and untaxed packaged food purchases in response to these taxes in the entire sample and stratified by socioeconomic status (SES). This study uses data on household packaged food purchases representative of the Mexican urban population from The Nielsen Company's Mexico Consumer Panel Services (CPS). We included 6,248 households that participated in the Nielsen CPS in at least 2 mo during 2012-2014; average household follow-up was 32.7 mo. We analyzed the volume of purchases of taxed and untaxed foods from January 2012 to December 2014, using a longitudinal, fixed-effects model that adjusted for preexisting trends to test whether the observed post-tax trend was significantly different from the one expected based on the pre-tax trend. We controlled for household characteristics and contextual factors like minimum salary and unemployment rate. The mean volume of purchases of taxed foods in 2014 changed by -25 g (95% confidence interval = -46, -11) per capita per month, or a 5.1% change beyond what would have been expected based on pre-tax (2012-2013) trends, with no corresponding change in purchases of untaxed foods. Low SES households purchased on average 10.2% less taxed foods than expected (-44 [-72, -16] g per capita per month); medium SES households purchased 5.8% less taxed foods than expected (-28 [-46, -11] g per capita per month), whereas high SES households' purchases did not change. The main limitations of our findings are the inability to infer causality because the taxes were implemented at the national level (lack of control group), our sample is only representative of urban areas, we only have 2 y of data prior to the tax, and, as with any consumer panel survey, we did not capture all foods purchased by the household. Household purchases of nonessential energy-dense foods declined in the first year after the implementation of Mexico's SSB and nonessential foods taxes. Future studies should evaluate the impact of the taxes on overall energy intake, dietary quality, and food purchase patterns (see S1 Abstract in Spanish).

We developed a reporting guideline to provide authors with guidance about what should be reported when writing a paper for publication in a scientific journal using a particular type of research design: the single-case experimental design. This report describes the methods used to develop the Single-Case Reporting guideline In BEhavioural interventions (SCRIBE) 2016. As a result of 2 online surveys and a 2-day meeting of experts, the SCRIBE 2016 checklist was developed, which is a set of 26 items that authors need to address when writing about single-case research. This article complements the more detailed SCRIBE 2016 Explanation and Elaboration article (Tate et al., 2016) that provides a rationale for each of the items and examples of adequate reporting from the literature. Both these resources will assist authors to prepare reports of single-case research with clarity, completeness, accuracy, and transparency. They will also provide journal reviewers and editors with a practical checklist against which such reports may be critically evaluated. We recommend that the SCRIBE 2016 is used by authors preparing manuscripts describing single-case research for publication, as well as journal reviewers and editors who are evaluating such manuscripts. Reporting guidelines, such as the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) Statement, improve the reporting of research in the medical literature (Turner et al., 2012). Many such guidelines exist and the CONSORT Extension to Nonpharmacological Trials (Boutron et al., 2008) provides suitable guidance for reporting between-groups intervention studies in the behavioral sciences. The CONSORT Extension for N-of-1 Trials (CENT 2015) was developed for multiple crossover trials with single individuals in the medical sciences (Shamseer et al., 2015; Vohra et al., 2015), but there is no reporting guideline in the CONSORT tradition for single-case research used in the behavioral sciences. We developed the Single-Case Reporting guideline In BEhavioural interventions (SCRIBE) 2016 to meet this need. This Statement article describes the methodology of the development of the SCRIBE 2016, along with the outcome of 2 Delphi surveys and a consensus meeting of experts. We present the resulting 26-item SCRIBE 2016 checklist. The article complements the more detailed SCRIBE 2016 Explanation and Elaboration article (Tate et al., 2016) that provides a rationale for each of the items and examples of adequate reporting from the literature. Both these resources will assist authors to prepare reports of single-case research with clarity, completeness, accuracy, and transparency. They will also provide journal reviewers and editors with a practical checklist against which such reports may be critically evaluated.

Schizophrenia is an illness that impairs a person's social cognition. The Mayer Salovey Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (MSCEIT) is the most well-known test used to measure emotional intelligence (EI), which is a major component of social cognition. Given the absence of EI ability-based scales adapted to Chinese speakers, we translated the MSCEIT into a Traditional Chinese version (MSCEIT-TC) and validated this scale for use in schizophrenia studies. The specific aims were to validate the MSCEIT-TC, to develop a norm for the MSCEIT-TC, and use this norm to explore the EI performance of schizophrenic individuals. We included in our study seven hundred twenty-eight healthy controls and seventy-six individuals with schizophrenia. The results suggest that the MSCEIT-TC is reliable and valid when assessing EI. The results showed good discrimination and validity when comparing the two study groups. Impairment was the greatest for two branches Understanding and Managing Emotions, which implies that the deficits of schizophrenia individuals involve ToM (theory of mind) tasks. Deficits involving the negative scale of schizophrenia was related to impaired performance when the MSCEIT-TC was used (in branch 2, 3, 4, and the area Strategic). Our findings suggest that the MSCEIT-TC can be used for emotional studies in healthy Chinese and in clinical setting for investigating schizophrenic individuals.

Statistics on mortality related to each disease are usually based on the so-called underlying cause of death, which is selected from the diseases declared on the standardized death certificate using international rules. However, the assumption that each death is caused by exactly one disease is debatable, particularly with an aging population in an era where infectious diseases are replaced by chronic and degenerative diseases. The need to consider multiple causes of death has been acknowledged in epidemiologic research, with a growing body of literature producing statistics based on any mention of a disease on the death certificate. Yet there has not been a formal framework proposed for the statistical modeling of death arising from multiple causes. We propose a model for multiple cause of death data grounded on an empirical approach that assigns weights to each cause on the death certificate. We describe how this model for multiple-cause mortality, which extends the usual competing risks model used to conceptualize single-cause mortality, can serve to study the burden and etiology of mortality related to each disease, particularly using Cox regression methodology. We discuss how the multiple-cause, single-cause, and "any-mention" approaches compare in this regard. A simulation study and an application to a study of socioeconomic inequalities in mortality show the value of the proposed methods for exploiting this precious source of data to gain new insights, especially for certain diseases. See video abstract at, http://links.lww.com/EDE/B84.

In this paper we contribute to "sociology in bioethics" and help clarify the range of ways sociological work can contribute to ethics scholarship. We do this using a case study of an innovative neurotechnology, functional magnetic resonance imaging, and its use to attempt to diagnose and communicate with severely brain-injured patients. We compare empirical data from interviews with relatives of patients who have a severe brain injury with perspectives from mainstream bioethics scholars. We use the notion of an "ethical landscape" as an analogy for the different ethical positions subjects can take-whereby a person's position relative to the landscape makes a difference to the way they experience and interact with it. We show that, in comparison to studying abstract ethics "from above" the ethical landscape, which involves universal generalizations and global judgements, studying ethics empirically "from the ground," within the ethical landscape foregrounds a more plural and differentiated picture. We argue it is important not to treat empirical ethics as secondary to abstract ethics, to treat on-the-ground perspectives as useful only insofar as they can inform ethics from above. Rather, empirical perspectives can illuminate the plural vantage points in ethical judgments, highlight the "lived" nature of ethical reasoning, and point to all ethical vantage points as being significant. This is of epistemic importance to normative ethics, since researchers who pay attention to the various positions in and trajectories through the ethical landscape are unlikely to think about ethics in terms of abstract agency-as can happen with top-down ethics-or to elide agency with the agency of policymakers. Moreover, empirical perspectives may have transformative implications for people on the ground, especially where focus on the potential harms and benefits they face brings their experiences and interests to the forefront of ethical and policy discussion.

Airline pilots and similar professions require reliable spatial cognition abilities, such as mental imagery of static and moving three-dimensional objects in space. A well-known task to investigate these skills is the Shepard and Metzler mental rotation task (SMT), which is also frequently used during pre-assessment of pilot candidates. Despite the intuitive relationship between real-life spatial cognition and SMT, several studies have challenged its predictive value. Here we report on a novel instrument interpretation task (IIT) based on a realistic attitude indicator used in modern aircrafts that was designed to bridge the gap between the abstract SMT and a cockpit environment. We investigated 18 professional airline pilots using fMRI. No significant correlation was found between SMT and IIT task accuracies. Contrasting both tasks revealed higher activation in the fusiform gyrus, angular gyrus, and medial precuneus for IIT, whereas SMT elicited significantly stronger activation in pre- and supplementary motor areas, as well as lateral precuneus and superior parietal lobe. Our results show that SMT skills per se are not sufficient to predict task accuracy during (close to) real-life instrument interpretation. While there is a substantial overlap of activation across the task conditions, we found that there are important differences between instrument interpretation and non-aviation based mental rotation.

Migrant women are at risk of perinatal mental disorders due to stressors experienced before, during and after migration. This systematic review and meta-analysis summarises the prevalence, associated factors and interventions for perinatal mental disorders in migrant women from low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). We systematically searched nine electronic databases and the grey literature using a predefined search strategy. Studies were included if they assessed pregnant or postpartum migrants from LMIC, used a structured tool and a case-control, cross-sectional, cohort or intervention study design. Data was double-extracted. We calculated pooled prevalence of depression and weighted mean anxiety and depression scores. We calculated crude odds ratios from risk factor studies and summarised intervention studies descriptively. Forty studies were identified from 10 123 references. Pooled prevalence was 31% [95% condidence interval (CI) 23%-40%] for any depressive disorder and 17% (95% CI 12-23%) for major depressive disorder. Previous depression and lower social support were associated with perinatal depression. There were insufficient data to assess the burden of anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder or psychosis in this population. One in three migrant women from LMIC experiences symptoms of perinatal depression. Social support is an important protective factor. Evidence on LMIC women relocating to other LMIC is lacking. Given the adverse consequences of perinatal mental illness on women and their children, further research in low-resource settings is a priority. One in three migrant women from low- and middle-income countries has symptoms of perinatal depression.

To assess whether conference abstracts that report higher estimates of diagnostic accuracy are more likely to reach full-text publication in a peer-reviewed journal. We identified abstracts describing diagnostic accuracy studies, presented between 2007 and 2010 at the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (ARVO) Annual Meeting. We extracted reported estimates of sensitivity, specificity, area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR). Between May and July 2015, we searched MEDLINE and EMBASE to identify corresponding full-text publications; if needed, we contacted abstract authors. Cox regression was performed to estimate associations with full-text publication, where sensitivity, specificity, and AUC were logit transformed, and DOR was log transformed. A full-text publication was found for 226/399 (57%) included abstracts. There was no association between reported estimates of sensitivity and full-text publication (hazard ratio [HR] 1.09 [95% confidence interval {CI} 0.98, 1.22]). The same applied to specificity (HR 1.00 [95% CI 0.88, 1.14]), AUC (HR 0.91 [95% CI 0.75, 1.09]), and DOR (HR 1.01 [95% CI 0.94, 1.09]). Almost half of the ARVO conference abstracts describing diagnostic accuracy studies did not reach full-text publication. Studies in abstracts that mentioned higher accuracy estimates were not more likely to be reported in a full-text publication.

Convergent lines of research in the biological sciences have made obsolete the commonly held assumption that humans are distinct from and superior to all other animals, a development predicted by evolutionary science. Cumulative evidence has both elevated other animals from the status of "dumb brutes" to that of fully sentient and intentional beings and has simultaneously discredited elevated claims of human rationality, intentionality, and freedom from the constraints experienced by other animals. It follows then that any theoretical model in which humans occupy the top of an imagined evolutionary hierarchy is untenable. This simple fact calls for a rethinking of foundational concepts in law and health sciences. A further cultural fallacy that is exposed by these converging lines of scientific evidence is the notion that the subjective inner and abstract dimension of human beings is the most true and valuable level of analysis for organizing human lives. In fact, our individual and collective minds are particularly vulnerable to elaborated false narratives that may be definitive of the particular forms of suffering that humans experience and seek to heal with modalities like psychoanalytic psychotherapies. I conclude with the suggestion that other animals may have the capacity to help us with this healing project, even as we are ethically bound to heal the suffering that we have collectively imposed upon them.

Abstract The updated 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans, published in January 2016, have stirred much controversy since the advisory report first appeared. Several important changes have been made, with some recommendations having greater scientific evidence for their support than others. The focus of this review is to discuss specific recommendations from the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans that lack sound scientific evidence; these include: 1) Allowing approximately half of all grains to be refined; 2) The continued recommendations for fat-free or low-fat dairy and limitation of saturated fat intake to < 10% of calories; 3) Sodium intake < 2,300 mg/day; and 4) Consumption of up to 27 grams/day of "oils" (high in polyunsaturated fat or monounsaturated fat). Based on our review, the aforementioned recommendations found in the updated 2015 Dietary Guideline for Americans may increase the incidence of cardiometabolic disease, diabetes, obesity, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, and possibly cancer.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Frailty and multimorbidity are common in later life. A higher level of frailty is associated with a higher risk of adverse physical and psychological health situations. Older adults with pain have been reported to be lonelier and more depressed, as well as less happy and less satisfied with their life as compared to those without pain. In view of the high prevalence of pain among older adults and the reversibility of frailty, it is important to explore the relationship between pain, frailty and psychological parameters in order to devise patient-centred interventions. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Frailty index is positively correlated with the presence of pain, and associated with gender, functional mobility and loneliness. Among these significant variables, loneliness was the factor that contributed the most to the frailty index. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: It is essential to put the focus of healthcare on both the physical and psychological aspects of well-being. All nurses are advised to improve the management of pain in older people in order to lower the levels of pain, frailty and psychological distress among this population. Nursing care should address the loneliness level especially the problem of social loneliness among older adults particularly those living in nursing homes. Introduction In view of the high prevalence of pain among older adults and the reversibility of frailty, it is important to explore the relationship between pain, frailty and psychological parameters in order to devise patient-centred interventions. Aim To examine the levels of frailty, pain and psychological parameters among older adults living in Hong Kong nursing homes, and the cross-sectional relationships among these items. Methods A cross-sectional study was conducted among 178 residents from six nursing homes. Frailty, pain, mobility, happiness, loneliness and life satisfaction of participants were assessed using validated questionnaires. Results A multiple linear regression (R(2)  = 0.338, P < 0.05) showed that the frailty index was associated with loneliness, functional mobility and gender. Among these significant variables, loneliness was the factor that contributed the most to the frailty index. Discussion It is essential to put the focus of healthcare on both the physical and psychological aspects of well-being. Findings suggest that apart from improving mobility and reducing pain, loneliness could be a target of psychosocial interventions to reduce frailty and improve quality of life. Implications for practice It is advised that nursing care should address loneliness, especially the problem of social loneliness among older adults particularly those living in nursing homes.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent type of dementia in people over 65 years of age; type 2 diabetes mellitus is a metabolic condition affecting 382 million of adults worldwide. Glucose is the main substrate for energy for the brain, which consumes 25% of the body's glucose. Glucose metabolism, evaluated using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanning using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose ([18F]-FDG) is commonly used for diagnosis and follow up in AD. Epidemiological and pathophysiological studies showed a link between AD and diabetes, particularly in relation to insulin resistance. In this paper, we discuss how [18F] FDG is a marker of glucose metabolism, how insulin resistance is related to diabetes, the link between diabetes and AD, and how novel treatments for diabetes could be beneficial in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. We also review few recent patents in the field, suggesting both diagnostic and therapeutic potential approaches. The electronic searches were performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases. We also manually searched abstract books and reviewed available recent patents on specific websites. The impaired glucose metabolism in the brain of subject with AD is a widely recognised early feature of the disease; in vivo evaluation with PET is a useful diagnostic tool. The link between diabetes and neurodegeneration is widely recognized and offer a target for novel therapeutic strategies. Early diagnosis and early therapeutic intervention are needed to approach this devastating disease. Important studies targeting different aspect of the disease are currently ongoing.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: While smoking rates within the general population in Australia are dropping, 32% of Australians with a mental illness smoke, increasing to 73% among those with severe or chronic mental illness. In Australia and elsewhere, smoking bans within mental health facilities have been implemented. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: We surveyed 98 mental health professionals in Australia to gather information on attitudes toward smoke-free policies in mental health/psychiatric units within Australia. While previous research has sought information on agreement or disagreement with smoking-bans, very little research has been conducted focusing on attitudes held by mental health professionals towards smoke-free policies. This study utilized a mixed-methods approach in which the qualitative data provides a rich source of information to assist in developing programmes or interventions to influence attitudes and therefore change behaviours of mental health professionals. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: This paper can be useful in providing a better understanding of the theories linking smoking and mental illness, and the common 'myths' which influence attitudes to smoking cessation in clinical populations. Results will influence the development of training and education resources for mental health practitioners, and particularly for nursing staff working within psychiatric facilities, in relation to smoking cessation. Importantly, this issue has implications in the areas of policy planning and development, education relating to smoking behaviour and smoking cessation programmes, together with holistic health care. Introduction Mental health units in Australia and internationally are increasingly implementing smoke-free policies. Due to the high prevalence of smoking among clinical populations, this has become an important research area. Purpose of study This study explored the attitudes of mental health professionals toward smoke-free policies in mental health units within Australia. Method Using an online survey design, 98 Australian mental health professionals participated in the study. Results Results indicated that only 25.5% agreed with a total smoking ban. Although supporting smoke-free initiatives within the wider community, participants commonly held attitudes that were unsupportive of smoking bans, and indicated beliefs inconsistent with a smoke-free policy for clinical populations. Discussion Results suggest the need for appropriate staff education and training regarding smoking behaviours and risks, and smoking cessation treatments for clinical populations if smoke-free policies are to be successfully implemented. Implications for practice Findings suggest important implications for holistic mental health care, staff education and training, as well as policy, planning and development, particularly in relation to this treatment group, who are likely to have entered a psychiatric unit in crisis.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Verbal de-escalation is an intervention aimed at calmly managing an agitated client to prevent violence. Effective de-escalation can help reduce the use of seclusion and restraint in psychiatric settings. Despite its importance in practice, there is little agreement on the necessary techniques of de-escalation and most of the research on the topic is based on expert opinion. To our knowledge, only one attempt at quantifying de-escalation skill has been pursued through the German-language De-Escalating Aggressive Behaviour Scale (DABS). While the DABS identified seven qualities necessary for de-escalation, it has not been validated in English and may lack important descriptors. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The present study enhanced the original DABS with best, acceptable and least desirable staff de-escalation practice descriptions for each of the seven items. This enhancement of the DABS lead to the creation of the English modified DABS (EMDABS). The EMDABS was psychometrically validated for use in research and practice: raters could use the EMDABS with a high level of agreement and consistency. Also, the scale appeared to measure a single cohesive construct - de-escalation. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: With further validation, the EMDABS has potential to be the first English quantitative measure of de-escalation. The EMDABS offers seven items, with associated best practice descriptions, that may be used to inform de-escalation practice. The EMDABS can be used to evaluate training and education programmes and inform how these programmes and independent de-escalation practice may be improved. Introduction Verbal de-escalation is crucial to a non-coercive psychiatric environment. Despite its importance, the literature on de-escalation is sparse and mostly qualitative. To address this, Nau et al. (2009) quantified de-escalation by creating the German-language De-Escalating Aggressive Behaviour Scale (DABS). The DABS provides seven skills necessary for de-escalation, however it has not been validated in English and lacks the necessary anchor descriptions to make it useful. Aim To modify the DABS to include descriptions of best, acceptable and least desirable staff practice and to validate the English modified DABS (EMDABS). Method To develop item descriptions for the EMDABS, 50 conflictual staff-patient interactions were reviewed, summarized and cross-referenced with the literature (n = 19). Three raters then used the EMDABS to evaluate 272 simulations depicting these interactions. Results The EMDABS demonstrated very good inter-rater reliability [ICC (3, 1) = 0.752] and strong internal consistency (α = 0.901). A factor analysis revealed that the seven items were best represented by a single factor. Discussion The EMDABS was validated for future use in research and practice. Additional validation and future research directions are discussed. Implications for practice The EMDABS holds promise as a quantitative measure of de-escalation. Its seven items and best practice guidelines have clinical implications for improving practice and training.

Prior research on fear of crime has focused less on psychological causes than on sociological and demographic factors. This study, however, introduces time perspective (TP) as an important psychological variable in the understanding of fear of crime. Specifically, the article assesses the relationship between TP as a stable personality factor and the mediation of risk and general fear on fear of crime levels. Data were collected using the survey method from a sample of 375 respondents utilizing the following scales: Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory (ZTPI) consisting of five TP subscales, Ferraro's perceived risk of victimization and fear of crime scales, and a general (non-crime) fear scale measuring pragmatic and abstract fear. Path analysis shows no significant direct relationships between the five TP subscales and fear of crime. However, indirect effects are observed for Past Negative TP and Present Fatalistic TP, with general fear (pragmatic and abstract) and risk of victimization mediating the relationship, and pragmatic fear having the greatest significant effect size. Results are discussed in the context of risk and general fear sensitivity and construal level theory. We conclude with recommendations for future research.

abstract.

Recently, several studies have demonstrated that articles that disclose conflicts of interests (COI) are associated with publication of positive results. The purpose of this study was to learn more about the different types of COI as they relate to the general topic of COI in plastic surgery. Specifically, we aimed to examine whether different types of COI are more likely than others to be associated with the presentation of positive findings. We reviewed all original articles in Annals of Plastic Surgery, Journal of Plastic, Reconstructive, and Aesthetic Surgery, and Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery from January 1, 2012, to December 31, 2013. All scientific articles were analyzed, and several article characteristics were extracted. Disclosed COI were categorized into the following categories: consultant/employee, royalties/stock options, and research support. The findings reported in each article abstract were blindly graded as reporting a positive, negative, neutral, or not applicable result. A multivariable analysis was performed to determine whether an association existed between certain types of COI and publication of positive conclusions. A total of 3124 articles were identified of which 1185 fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Financial COI were reported in 153 studies (12.9%). The most common type of COI was "research support" (7.3%), whereas the least common was "royalties/stock options" (1.2%). Rates of different types of COI varied significantly by plastic surgery subspecialty field (P < 0.001). In the multivariable analysis, authors who disclosed COI related to research support, consultant/employee, and royalties/stock options were 1.31, 6.62, and 8.72 times more likely, respectively, to publish positive findings when compared with authors that disclosed no COI after correcting for potential confounding factors. However, consultancy/employee status was the only COI category statistically associated with publication of positive results (P < 0.001). Self-reported COI are uncommon in plastic surgery research. Our results provide evidence that certain types of financial COI are more likely than others to be associated with the presentation of positive findings. This analysis suggests that certain investigators may be more biased, consciously or unconsciously, by the type of financial benefit offered by industry.

SEE STEPHAN ET AL DOI101093/AWW120 FOR A SCIENTIFIC COMMENTARY ON THIS WORK: Real world information is often abstract, dynamic and imprecise. Deciding if changes represent random fluctuations, or alterations in underlying contexts involve challenging probability estimations. Dysfunction may contribute to erroneous beliefs, such as delusions. Here we examined brain function during inferences about context change from noisy information. We examined cortical-subcortical circuitry engaging anterior and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and midbrain. We hypothesized that schizophrenia-related deficits in prefrontal function might overestimate context change probabilities, and that this more chaotic worldview may subsequently gain familiarity and be over-reinforced, with implications for delusions. We then examined these opposing information processing biases against less expected versus familiar information patterns in relation to genetic risk for schizophrenia in unaffected siblings. In one experiment, 17 patients with schizophrenia and 24 normal control subjects were presented in 3 T magnetic resonance imaging with numerical information varying noisily about a context integer, which occasionally shifted up or down. Subjects were to indicate when the inferred numerical context had changed. We fitted Bayesian models to estimate probabilities associated with change inferences. Dynamic causal models examined cortical-subcortical circuitry interactions at context change inference, and at subsequent reduced uncertainty. In a second experiment, genetic risk for schizophrenia associated with similar cortical-subcortical findings were explored in an independent sample of 36 normal control subjects and 35 unaffected siblings during processing of intuitive number sequences along the number line, or during the inverse, less familiar, sequence. In the first experiment, reduced Bayesian models fitting subject behaviour suggest that patients with schizophrenia overestimated context change probabilities. Here, patients engaged anterior prefrontal cortex relatively less than healthy controls, in part driven by reduced effective connectivity from dorsolateral prefrontal cortex to anterior prefrontal cortex. In processing subsequent information indicating reduced uncertainty of their predictions, patients engaged relatively increased mid-brain activation, driven in part by increased dorsolateral prefrontal cortex to midbrain connectivity. These dissociable reduced and exaggerated prefrontal and subcortical circuit functions were accentuated in patients with delusions. In the second experiment, analogous dissociable reduced anterior prefrontal cortex and exaggerated midbrain engagement occurred in unaffected siblings when processing less expected versus more familiar number sequences. In conclusion, patients overestimated ambiguous context change probabilities with relatively reduced anterior frontal engagement. Subsequent reduced uncertainty about contextual state appeared over-reinforced, potentially contributing to confirmation bias and a cascade of aberrant belief processing about a more chaotic world relevant to delusions. These opposing cortical-subcortical effects relate in part to genetic risk for schizophrenia, with analogous imbalances in neural processing of less expected versus familiar information patterns.

There is growing research and policy interest in the potential for using the natural environment to enhance human health and well-being. This resource may be underused as a health promotion tool to address the increasing burden of common health problems such as increased chronic diseases and mental health concerns. Outdoor environmental enhancement and conservation activities (EECA) (for instance unpaid litter picking, tree planting or path maintenance) offer opportunities for physical activity alongside greater connectedness with local environments, enhanced social connections within communities and improved self-esteem through activities that improve the locality which may, in turn, further improve well-being. To assess the health and well-being impacts on adults following participation in environmental enhancement and conservation activities. We contacted or searched the websites of more than 250 EECA organisations to identify grey literature. Resource limitations meant the majority of the websites were from UK, USA, Canada and Australia. We searched the following databases (initially in October 2012, updated October 2014, except CAB Direct, OpenGrey, SPORTDiscus, and TRIP Database), using a search strategy developed with our project advisory groups (predominantly leaders of EECA-type activities and methodological experts): ASSIA; BIOSIS; British Education Index; British Nursing Index; CAB Abstracts; Campbell Collaboration; Cochrane Public Health Specialized Register; DOPHER; EMBASE; ERIC; Global Health; GreenFILE; HMIC; MEDLINE-in-Process; MEDLINE; OpenGrey; PsychINFO; Social Policy and Practice; SPORTDiscus; TRoPHI; Social Services Abstracts; Sociological Abstracts; The Cochrane Library; TRIP database; and Web of Science. Citation and related article chasing was used. Searches were limited to studies in English published after 1990. Two review authors independently screened studies. Included studies examined the impact of EECA on adult health and well-being. Eligible interventions needed to include each of the following: intended to improve the outdoor natural or built environment at either a local or wider level; took place in urban or rural locations in any country; involved active participation; and were NOT experienced through paid employment.We included quantitative and qualitative research. Includable quantitative study designs were: randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster RCTs, quasi-RCTs, cluster quasi-RCTs, controlled before-and-after studies, interrupted-time-series, cohort studies (prospective or retrospective), case-control studies and uncontrolled before-and-after studies (uBA). We included qualitative research if it used recognised qualitative methods of data collection and analysis. One reviewer extracted data, and another reviewer checked the data. Two review authors independently appraised study quality using the Effective Public Health Practice Project tool (for quantitative studies) or Wallace criteria (for qualitative studies). Heterogeneity of outcome measures and poor reporting of intervention specifics prevented meta-analysis so we synthesised the results narratively. We synthesised qualitative research findings using thematic analysis. Database searches identified 21,420 records, with 21,304 excluded at title/abstract. Grey literature searches identified 211 records. We screened 327 full-text articles from which we included 21 studies (reported in 28 publications): two case-studies (which were not included in the synthesis due to inadequate robustness), one case-control, one retrospective cohort, five uBA, three mixed-method (uBA, qualitative), and nine qualitative studies. The 19 studies included in the synthesis detailed the impacts to a total of 3,603 participants: 647 from quantitative intervention studies and 2630 from a retrospective cohort study; and 326 from qualitative studies (one not reporting sample size).Included studies shared the key elements of EECA defined above, but the range of activities varied considerably. Quantitative evaluation methods were heterogeneous. The designs or reporting of quantitative studies, or both, were rated as 'weak' quality with high risk of bias due to one or more of the following: inadequate study design, intervention detail, participant selection, outcome reporting and blinding.Participants' characteristics were poorly reported; eight studies did not report gender or age and none reported socio-economic status. Three quantitative studies reported that participants were referred through health or social services, or due to mental ill health (five quantitative studies), however participants' engagement routes were often not clear.Whilst the majority of quantitative studies (n = 8) reported no effect on one or more outcomes, positive effects were reported in six quantitative studies relating to short-term physiological, mental/emotional health, and quality-of-life outcomes. Negative effects were reported in two quantitative studies; one study reported higher levels of anxiety amongst participants, another reported increased mental health stress.The design or reporting, or both, of the qualitative studies was rated as good in three studies or poor in nine; mainly due to missing detail about participants, methods and interventions. Included qualitative evidence provided rich data about the experience of participation. Thematic analysis identified eight themes supported by at least one good quality study, regarding participants' positive experiences and related to personal/social identity, physical activity, developing knowledge, spirituality, benefits of place, personal achievement, psychological benefits and social contact. There was one report of negative experiences. There is little quantitative evidence of positive or negative health and well-being benefits from participating in EECA. However, the qualitative research showed high levels of perceived benefit among participants. Quantitative evidence resulted from study designs with high risk of bias, qualitative evidence lacked reporting detail. The majority of included studies were programme evaluations, conducted internally or funded by the provider.The conceptual framework illustrates the range of interlinked mechanisms through which people believe they potentially achieve health and well-being benefits, such as opportunities for social contact. It also considers potential moderators and mediators of effect.One main finding of the review is the inherent difficulty associated with generating robust evidence of effectiveness for complex interventions. We developed the conceptual framework to illustrate how people believed they benefited. Investigating such mechanisms in a subsequent theory-led review might be one way of examining evidence of effect for these activities.The conceptual framework needs further refinement through linked reviews and more reliable evidence. Future research should use more robust study designs and report key intervention and participant detail.

The widespread sharing of biologicaConcluding Comments: Teaching Responsible Datal and biomedical data is recognised as a key element in facilitating translation of scientific discoveries into novel clinical applications and services. At the same time, twenty-first century states are increasingly concerned that this data could also be used for purposes of bioterrorism. There is thus a tension between the desire to promote the sharing of data, as encapsulated by the Open Data movement, and the desire to prevent this data from 'falling into the wrong hands' as represented by 'dual use' policies. Both frameworks posit a moral duty for life sciences researchers with respect to how they should make their data available. However, Open data and dual use concerns are rarely discussed in concert and their implementation can present scientists with potentially conflicting ethical requirements. Both dual use and Open data policies frame scientific data and data dissemination in particular, though different, ways. As such they contain implicit models for how data is translated. Both approaches are limited by a focus on abstract conceptions of data and data sharing. This works to impede consensus-building between the two ethical frameworks. As an alternative, this paper proposes that an ethics of responsible management of scientific data should be based on a more nuanced understanding of the everyday data practices of life scientists. Responsibility for these 'micromovements' of data must consider the needs and duties of scientists as individuals and as collectively-organised groups. Researchers in the life sciences are faced with conflicting ethical responsibilities to share data as widely as possible, but prevent it being used for bioterrorist purposes. In order to reconcile the responsibilities posed by the Open Data and dual use frameworks, approaches should focus more on the everyday practices of laboratory scientists and less on abstract conceptions of data.

According to the use it or lose it hypothesis, intellectually stimulating activities postpone age-related cognitive decline. A previous systematic review concluded that a high level of mental work demands and job control protected against cognitive decline. However, it did not distinguish between outcomes that were measured as cognitive function at one point in time or as cognitive decline. Our study aimed to systematically review which psychosocial working conditions were prospectively associated with high levels of cognitive function and/or changes in cognitive function over time. Articles were identified by a systematic literature search (MEDLINE, Web of Science (WOS), PsycNET, Occupational Safety and Health (OSH)). We included only studies with longitudinal designs examining the impact of psychosocial work conditions on outcomes defined as cognitive function or changes in cognitive function. Two independent reviewers compared title-abstract screenings, full-text screenings and quality assessment ratings. Eleven studies were included in the final synthesis and showed that high levels of mental work demands, occupational complexity or job control at one point in time were prospectively associated with higher levels of cognitive function in midlife or late life. However, the evidence to clarify whether these psychosocial factors also affected cognitive decline was insufficient, conflicting or weak. It remains speculative whether job control, job demands or occupational complexity can protect against cognitive decline. Future studies using methodological advancements can reveal whether workers gain more cognitive reserve in midlife and late life than the available evidence currently suggests. The public health implications of a previous review should thereby be redefined accordingly.

N,N-dimethyl-2-phenylpropan-1-amine (NN-DMPPA) is a new designer stimulant prohibited in sport in-competition according to the List of Prohibited Substances and Methods published by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The first published data on the excretion study of NN-DMPPA to support the knowledge of NN-DMPPA in routine anti-doping control have been presented. The reliable gas chromatography-mass spectrometry quantitative method (GC-MS) has been validated and applied to the excretion study of NN-DMPPA. The validation parameters of the GC-MS method for determination of NN-DMPPA in human urine were the linear calibration range of 100 to 7500 ng/mL, the LOD of 13.9 ng/mL and the LOQ of 42.2 ng/mL. According to the obtained repeatability, intermediate precision, and trueness, the applied GC-MS method was precise and accurate. Urine samples from three volunteers in the excretion study were collected for 5 days after single oral administration of the supplement NOXPUMP containing NN-DMPPA. The obtained results showed the maximum concentration of NN-DMPPA (189-303 ng/mL) in urine samples at a time of 2-3 h post-administration. The NN-DMPPA concentration in urine samples was higher than 50 ng/mL until 22-23 h after the dietary supplement ingestion. This means that according to the WADA rules the use of a supplement containing NN-DMPPA may be related to a positive case when athletes took this supplement in-competition. Moreover, excretion results demonstrate also that NN-DMPPA may be detected in urine samples by the applied GC-MS method till 46 h after supplement administration. Additionally, the excretion study of β-methylphenethylamine as the second prohibited substance present in the supplement NOXPUMP has been investigated. Graphical Abstract Excretion study of new designer stimulant, N,N-dimethyl-2-phenylpropan-1-amine, and β-methylphenethylamine following single oral NOXPUMP supplement dose.

To identify the characteristics of peer-reviewed literature on citizenship and disability published in English from 1985 to 2015. A scoping review was conducted using the Arksey and O'Malley framework. Several databases were searched for peer-reviewed journal articles including the terms citizenship and disability, impairment or handicap in their abstract or title; published between 1985 and 2015; in English. A total of 295 articles were included. Key findings are (1) the number of articles about disability and citizenship increased dramatically over the past three decades, (2) the meaning of citizenship is often left undiscussed, (3) citizenship is more often discussed in terms of access to social rights and less so in regards to contributions to society and participation in family life, technology and culture, (4) disabled people tend to be represented as a homogeneous category, (5) most studies are qualitative and non-participatory. To broaden knowledge about the situation, membership and participation of persons with disabilities in society, further research should develop the conceptual use of citizenship in relation to disability, explore different research designs, investigate various citizenship sectors and take into account the complexity of personal and social situations of persons with disabilities. Implications for Rehabilitation The notion of citizenship is closely related to the goals of rehabilitation as it touches upon issues of membership and participation in society; Understanding the multiple dimensions of citizenship will help practitioners to design and improve rehabilitation treatments and connect these not only to social citizenship rights but also to the various social roles and contributions of persons with disabilities; A better understanding of the complex relationship between citizenship and disability on the part of practitioners is crucial since strategies and policy documents about persons with disabilities often mention citizenship.

We present results of an abstract, agent based model of opinion dynamics simulations based on the emotion/information/opinion (E/I/O) approach, applied to a strongly polarized society, corresponding to the Polish political scene between 2005 and 2015. Under certain conditions the model leads to metastable coexistence of two subcommunities of comparable size (supporting the corresponding opinions)-which corresponds to the bipartisan split found in Poland. Spurred by the recent breakdown of this political duopoly, which occurred in 2015, we present a model extension that describes both the long term coexistence of the two opposing opinions and a rapid, transitory change due to the appearance of a third party alternative. We provide quantitative comparison of the model with the results of polls and elections in Poland, testing the assumptions related to the modeled processes and the parameters used in the simulations. It is shown, that when the propaganda messages of the two incumbent parties differ in emotional tone, the political status quo may be unstable. The asymmetry of the emotions within the support bases of the two parties allows one of them to be 'invaded' by a newcomer third party very quickly, while the second remains immune to such invasion.

ABSTRACT The Solihull Approach's Understanding Your Child's Behaviour (UYCB) is a 10-session group for parents run by facilitators in their local area. Previous studies have shown that parents enjoy taking part in the group, and that UYCB can reduce problematic behaviours in children. Building on this research, the present study evaluated whether UYCB programmes run more recently in the UK were rated as positively by parents, and what positive changes were reported by parents. Both quantitative and qualitative data was analysed from 105 parents who took part in 18 different UYCB groups between 2012 and 2015. The results of this analysis showed that 90 per cent of parents found the group a great place to relax and share experiences, 93 per cent rated the group as 'great' for helping them understand their child, and 92 per cent gave a 'great' rating for helping them identify changes. In addition to this, content analysis showed that 47 per cent of parents reported having a better relationship with their child after taking part, 42 per cent said they were more confident, and importantly six per cent reported a significant positive change in their lives generally as a direct result of UYCB.

ABSTRACT Increasing breastfeeding rates is one way of reducing health inequality and breastfeeding peer support is seen an effective method to improve breastfeeding rates in low-income areas. Local quantitative data indicated a poor uptake of breastfeeding peer support in two deprived areas in a south-east London borough. This evaluation set out to investigate in more depth why the uptake was poor. Using semi-structured interviews, 11 women were interviewed, eight of whom declined the support and three embraced it. The findings indicate insurmountable barriers for the respondents in initiating and sustaining breastfeeding in a sometimes undermining formula-feeding community. They also show that early support and a good start were crucial for women to be able to withstand these barriers, with many women surreptitiously breastfeeding unbeknown to those caring for them. The respondents were wary of asking for help, knew little of the peer support programme, were distrustful as to what a peer supporter did and what she could do for them, and consequently some endured pain without recourse to support.

To describe the impact of peer reviewers on spin in reports of nonrandomized studies assessing a therapeutic intervention. This is a systematic review and retrospective before-after study. The sample consists of primary reports (n = 128) published in BioMed Central Medical Series journals between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2013. The main outcome measures are the following: number and type of spin examples identified, deleted, or added by peer reviewers in the whole manuscript; number of reports with spin in abstract conclusions not detected by peer reviewers; the level of spin (i.e., no, low, moderate, and high level of spin) in the abstract conclusions before and after the peer review. For 70 (55%) submitted manuscripts, peer reviewers identified at least one example of spin. Of 123 unique examples of spin identified by peer reviewers, 82 (67%) were completely deleted by the authors. For 19 articles (15%), peer reviewers requested adding some spin, and for 11 (9%), the spin was added by the authors. Peer reviewers failed to identify spin in abstract conclusions of 97 (76%) reports. Peer reviewers identified many examples of spin in submitted manuscripts. However, their influence on changing spin in the abstract conclusions was low.

There is ample evidence that social and familial context significantly impacts health. However, family and social history templates typically used in clinical practice exclude prompts to explore important contextual information, such as family dynamics, health beliefs, housing, and neighborhood environment. At the Residency Program in Social Medicine at Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein College of Medicine in Bronx, NY, we developed and piloted an expanded family and social information (FSI) template in our electronic health record (EHR) system. After 10 physicians used the FSI template during routine clinical practice, we conducted and qualitatively analyzed transcripts of semistructured interviews to assess their experiences. The major themes of physician's experiences using the FSI template included: expanded thinking (promoted thinking and discussion about contextual information), relevancy to care (highlighted important life events, helpful resource for future care or for team-based care), fragmentation (patient narrative difficult to categorize into discrete sections), and abstract phrasing (prompts too abstract and/or too complex to explore well). Some minor themes (themes that were repeated often, but not consistent in all interviews) were also noted: practice demands, educational purpose, and wish list. Within our small sample, we found that an expanded family and social information template broadened physicians' clinical thinking during routine visits. We also found that the structure of the EHR and practice demands create significant barriers to exploring a patient's narrative effectively. Themes identified in this research will inform national efforts to prioritize a contextual and biopsychosocial perspective in EHR systems. (PsycINFO Database Record

This study investigated the influence of culture on people's sensory responses, such as smell, taste, sound and touch to visual stimuli. The sensory feelings of university students from four countries (Japan, South Korea, Britain and France) to six images were evaluated. The images combined real and abstract objects and were presented on a notebook computer. Overall, 280 participants (144 men and 136 women; n = 70/country) were included in the statistical analysis. The chi-square independence analysis showed differences and similarities in the sensory responses across countries. Most differences were detected in smell and taste, whereas few variations were observed for sound responses. Large variations in the response were observed for the abstract coral and butterfly images, but few differences were detected in response to the real leaf image. These variations in response were mostly found in the British and Japanese participants.

This study investigates the work and care associated with raising a child with disabilities in the United States. Based on in-depth interviews with parents who have a child with autism, it develops the notion of parenting work and trajectories of care to investigate how parents navigate and coordinate the challenges of getting an autism diagnosis, obtaining educational services, and re-contextualising the possibilities for the future. I argue that parents embody a complex mix of love, hope, and responsibility in parenting work and trajectories of care that expands temporal and social elements of illness work and trajectories initially developed by Anselm Strauss and colleagues. This type of parenting work changes over time and is influenced by social structural forces and relationships in which the care takes place. The re-articulation of these analytic tools also begins to untangle the intricate mix of both medical and social models of disability that parents embrace and continuously negotiate. This study demonstrates how parents accept the medical model of disability by seeking and pushing for a clinical autism diagnosis and subsequent treatments, while at the same time challenge the limits placed on their children by providing them with opportunities, possible futures, and a sense of personhood. A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be accessed at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x0UmGvpcjeQ.

To investigate the parental physical and lifestyle determinants of newborn body composition. Prospective cohort study. Cork University Maternity Hospital, a tertiary referral hospital in Cork, Ireland. All babies were recruited as part of a prospective birth cohort, Babies After Evaluating the Longitudinal Impact Using Neurological and Nutritional Endpoints (BASELINE). These babies were recruited from women who had participated in the Screening of Pregnancy Endpoints (SCOPE) study Ireland, a prospective, multicentre cohort study Multivariate linear regression was used to analyse the effect of a range of maternal and paternal physical and lifestyle features on neonatal body fat percentage (BF%). Neonatal BF%. Neonatal adiposity was assessed within 48 hours of birth using air displacement plethysmography (PEAPOD(®) ). In all, 1243 infants were enrolled in the study. Increasing maternal body mass index (adjusted mean difference 0.09; 0.04, 0.15) and waist height ratio (adjusted mean difference 6.59; 0.27, 12.92) were significantly associated with increased neonatal BF%. In contrast, maternal smoking was associated with reduced neonatal BF% compared with non smokers (adjusted mean difference -0.55; -1.07, -0.03). Infant sex significantly altered neonatal BF%, with female infants having higher neonatal BF% compared with male infants (adjusted mean difference 1.98; 1.54, 2.53). No association was observed between paternal body mass index (BMI), paternal age or paternal smoking and neonatal BF%. Maternal smoking, BMI, waist height ratio and infant sex were associated with altered BF%. Maternal smoking, BMI, waist height ratio and infant sex are associated with altered neonatal body fat percentage.

We developed a reporting guideline to provide authors with guidance about what should be reported when writing a paper for publication in a scientific journal using a particular type of research design: the single-case experimental design. This report describes the methods used to develop the Single-Case Reporting guideline In BEhavioural interventions (SCRIBE) 2016. As a result of 2 online surveys and a 2-day meeting of experts, the SCRIBE 2016 checklist was developed, which is a set of 26 items that authors need to address when writing about single-case research. This article complements the more detailed SCRIBE 2016 Explanation and Elaboration article (Tate et al., 2016) that provides a rationale for each of the items and examples of adequate reporting from the literature. Both these resources will assist authors to prepare reports of single-case research with clarity, completeness, accuracy, and transparency. They will also provide journal reviewers and editors with a practical checklist against which such reports may be critically evaluated. We recommend that the SCRIBE 2016 is used by authors preparing manuscripts describing single-case research for publication, as well as journal reviewers and editors who are evaluating such manuscripts. Reporting guidelines, such as the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) Statement, improve the reporting of research in the medical literature (Turner et al., 2012). Many such guidelines exist and the CONSORT Extension to Nonpharmacological Trials (Boutron et al., 2008) provides suitable guidance for reporting between groups intervention studies in the behavioral sciences. The CONSORT Extension for N-of-1 Trials (CENT 2015) was developed for multiple crossover trials with single individuals in the medical sciences (Shamseer et al., 2015; Vohra et al., 2015), but there is no reporting guideline in the CONSORT tradition for single-case research used in the behavioral sciences. We developed the Single-Case Reporting guideline In BEhavioural interventions (SCRIBE) 2016 to meet this need. This Statement article describes the methodology of the development of the SCRIBE 2016, along with the outcome of 2 Delphi surveys and a consensus meeting of experts. We present the resulting 26-item SCRIBE 2016 checklist. The article complements the more detailed SCRIBE 2016 Explanation and Elaboration article (Tate et al., 2016) that provides a rationale for each of the items and examples of adequate reporting from the literature. Both these resources will assist authors to prepare reports of single-case research with clarity, completeness, accuracy, and transparency. They will also provide journal reviewers and editors with a practical checklist against which such reports may be critically evaluated.

Graphic health warnings (GHW) on tobacco packages have proven to be effective in increasing quit attempts among smokers and reducing initial smoking among adolescents. This research aimed to examine the relative importance of different attributes of graphic health warnings on tobacco packages in Viet Nam. A discrete choice experimental (DCE) design was applied with a conditional logit model. In addition, a ranking method was used to list from the least to the most dreadful GHW labels. With the results from DCE model, graphic type was shown to be the most important attribute, followed by cost and coverage area of GHW. The least important attribute was position of the GHW. Among 5 graphic types (internal lung cancer image, external damaged teeth, abstract image, human suffering image and text), the image of lung cancer was found to have the strongest influence on both smokers and non-smokers. With ranking method, the image of throat cancer and heart diseases were considered the most dreadful images. GHWs should be designed with these attributes in mind, to maximise influence on purchase among both smokers and non-smokers.

A systematic review of the literature was conducted to identify effective approaches to preventing and addressing abuse and neglect of older adults within health care settings in Canada. The review was conducted using databases searched from January 2000-April-May 2013. Additionally, expert panel members submitted article citations from personal archives. Two research associates (NRA) screened each title and abstract for inclusion. After inter-rater reliability was determined between the NRAs (Kappa score of 0.76), the records were divided, appraised, and data extracted independently. The review resulted in 62 studies that focused on identifying, assessing, and responding to abuse and neglect of older adults; education, prevention, and health promotion strategies; and organizational and system-level supports to prevent and respond to abuse and neglect. Abuse and neglect of older adults remains under-explored in terms of evidence-based studies; consequently, further research in all of the areas described in the results is needed.

Abstract. Malnutrition is one of the most prevalent problems in older people, but there is little information about the nutritional status of the older women in China. Therefore, this study was conducted to investigate the nutritional status and clinically correlated factors for malnutrition in older Han women in China. In total, 2,556 hospital- and community-based Han women aged 60 years or older were recruited between May 2007 and December 2014. All women completed comprehensive geriatric assessment, and the Mini Nutritional Assessment Short Form (MNA-SF) was used to assess the nutritional status. The clinically corre- lated factors for malnutrition were also analyzed, including social factors, health status, and dietary behavior. The average age of these women was 75.9 ± 9.4 years, and 63.8% women lived in urban areas. Of the total respondents, 344 and 716 women were classified as malnutrition and at risk of malnutrition, respectively. Five factors were independently and positively correlated with poor nutrition, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), gastrointestinal disease, depression, cognitive impairment, and comorbidity (≥ 2). Three factors were independently and negatively correlated with poor nutrition, including economic status, meat intake, and fish intake. The older Han women with these five health problems should be given more attention with regards to their nutritional status. Improving economic status, eating more meat and fish were recommended for preventing poor nutrition in older women.

The effectiveness of systemic-constructivist couple therapy (SCCT) in improving the relationship adjustment of South Asian Canadian couples in ways that attend to their culture was evaluated. The SCCT interventions engage partners in reflexive processing of both their own and their partner's ways of construing, and the reciprocity between these two. A core change mechanism of SCCT, couple identity ("we-ness"), that connotes the ability for thinking and experiencing relationally, was coded from verbatim transcripts of partners' within-session dialogue. As predicted, South Asian partners' relationship adjustment improved significantly from the first to final session of SCCT, and concurrent increases in each partner's couple identity mediated such improvements. The implications for considering culture and couple identity in couple therapy are discussed. Video Abstract is found in the online version of the article.

Neurology case reports have a long history of transmitting important medical information across many generations for the improvement of patient care. Case reports contribute much to the physician's knowledge base from which treatment hypotheses and ideas form. Elements of a modern case report, as presented in the CARE (CAse REport) guidelines, include the abstract, introduction, case presentation, discussion, conclusion, patient's perspective, and consent statement. The sections are described here, as well as the application of CARE guidelines to a published neuromuscular case report. Writing case reports offer an ideal opportunity for neurologists to publish interesting case findings and carry on the tradition of neurologic case reporting.

Despite previous research indicating an adolescents' alcohol, tobacco, and other drug (ATOD) use is dependent upon their sex and the sex composition of their social network, few social network studies consider sex differences and network sex composition as a determinant of adolescents' ATOD use behavior. This systematic literature review examining how social network analytic studies examine adolescent ATOD use behavior is guided by the following research questions: (1) How do studies conceptualize sex and network sex composition? (2) What types of network affiliations are employed to characterize adolescent networks? (3) What is the methodological quality of included studies? After searching several electronic databases (PsycINFO, EBSCO, and Communication Abstract) and applying our inclusion/exclusion criteria, 48 studies were included in the review. Overall, few studies considered sex composition of networks in which adolescents are embedded as a determinant that influences adolescent ATOD use. Although included studies all exhibited high methodological quality, the majority only used friendship networks to characterize adolescent social networks and subsequently failed to capture the influence of other network types, such as romantic networks. School-based prevention programs could be strengthened by (1) selecting and targeting peer leaders based on sex, and (2) leveraging other types of social networks beyond simply friendships.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Some research suggests that holding a free will perspective may offer mental health and physical health benefits. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: This study is the first to examine links between free will perceptions and psychiatric symptoms in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Study results suggest that helping people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia to recognize situations where they do have some freedom of choice over their actions and emotional reactions (free will) may assist them in improving their experiences and better managing their symptoms. Introduction Some research indicates that having a strong sense that one possesses free will may be associated with better psychological and physical health. This study is the first to examine the relationship between free will perceptions and psychiatric symptoms in patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia. Method Thirty-two participants were interviewed using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale to assess symptom severity and the Free Will Subscale of the Free Will and Determinism Scale to assess free will perceptions. Results As hypothesized, a negative association was found between free will perceptions and total symptom severity, though it appears that this was mainly accounted for by positive symptoms. A content analysis was also conducted to qualitatively examine how patients conceptualize the construct of free will and its role in coping with their own mental illness. Discussion Study results suggest that holding a free will perspective may mitigate psychiatric symptoms in patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia. Thus, psychiatric nurses and other mental health clinicians may improve current treatments for schizophrenia by helping patients recognize situations where they do have some freedom of choice over their actions and emotional reactions (free will) to stressful life events.

It is unclear how medical journals address authors' financial and non-financial conflict of interest (COI). To assess the policies of clinical journals for disclosure of financial and non-financial COI. Cross sectional study that included both review of public documents as well as a simulation of a manuscript submission for the National Library of Medicine's "core clinical journals". The study did not involve human subjects. Investigators who abstracted the data, reviewed "instructions for authors" on the journal website and, in order to reflect the actual implementation of the COI disclosure policy, simulated the submission of a manuscript. Two individuals working in duplicate and independently to abstract information using a standardized data abstraction form, resolved disagreements by discussion or with the help of a third person. All but one of 117 core clinical journals had a COI policy. All journals required disclosure of financial COI pertaining to the authors and a minority (35%) asked for financial COI disclosure pertaining to the family members or authors' institution (29%). Over half required the disclosure of at least one form of non-financial COI (57%), out of which only two (3%) specifically referred to intellectual COI. Small minorities of journals (17% and 24% respectively) described a potential impact of disclosed COI and of non-disclosure of COI on the editorial process. While financial COI disclosure was well defined by the majority of the journals, many did not have clear policies on disclosure of non-financial COI, disclosure of financial COI of family members and institutions of the authors, and effect of disclosed COI or non-disclosure of COI on editorial policies.

Management of the uncertainty inherent in a diagnosis of a progressive neurological illness is one of the major adjustment tasks facing those affected and their families. A causal relationship has been demonstrated between perceived illness uncertainty and negative psychological outcomes for individuals with progressive neurological illness. Whilst there is a small and promising intervention literature on the use of a range of individually focused strengths based psychological interventions there appears to be little guidance available how clinicians might help those family members of those affected. To undertake a systematic review of the evidence on the use of strengths based, family focused interventions that target illness uncertainty. A systematic literature search was undertaken using the National Library for Health abstract database. Five papers were included in the review, only two of which were published in peer reviewed journals. All five reported on strengths based approaches that could be used with families but only two explicitly identified illness uncertainty as a target. Outcome measures were heterogeneous so data could not be aggregated for meta-analysis. The results suggested that these interventions showed promised but the review highlighted a number of methodological issues which mean that the results must be interpreted with caution. There is very little evidence of the use of strengths based approaches to helping families manage the uncertainty associated with progressive neurological illness despite it having been identified as a key target for intervention. The review highlights the need for the development of an intervention framework to address this key clinical issue and suggests one model that might show promise.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Delusions are common experiences in psychosis and this is reflected in the number of studies focused on improving our understanding of their development, impact, and treatments. Many service users with psychosis are in informal caregiving relationships and carers can play an instrumental role in the recovery process. There remains a lack of knowledge and understanding about carer experiences and how they cope when their relative's delusions involve them or close others. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Data drawn from five individual carer interviews, which were subject to interpretative phenomenological analysis, identified the importance of six key themes. In addition to a carer's exposure to their relative's illness symptoms and a reported lack of understanding about their relative's delusions, was a fear of delusion-driven behaviours, and the carer's attempt to conceal the true extent of their caregiving challenges to others. Carers' relationships were fractured and their coping was best described as an ongoing process, mainly developed through trial and error. It extends our understanding of important issues faced by a subgroup of carers and facilitates discussion beyond their levels of stress and burden. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: The study, with its limitations, indicates some carers may live in fear of harm from their relatives but also be reluctant to disclose to others the full story of what they are coping with. Health professionals must routinely assess for risks that informal carers may be exposed to as part of their role, and offer tailored support and interventions. Background In recent years, there has been a gradual shift towards the study of individual symptom presentations in psychosis, this is particularly found in studies of delusional beliefs. However, the literature remains sparse on informal caregiver experiences of individual symptoms. Aim The study sought to investigate carer experiences of supporting a relative with delusional beliefs, which involve family members. Methods Semi-structured interviews were undertaken with five caregivers and subject to interpretative phenomenological analysis. Results Interviews yielded six superordinate themes highlighting issues concerning a carer's exposure to symptoms of illness; lack of understanding about their relatives' delusional beliefs; concerns over coming to harm from their relative: efforts made by the carer to conceal their relative's delusional beliefs and their consequences; fractured relationships, and a long process of learning how to best cope. Conclusion Caring for a relative with psychosis who experiences delusional beliefs about the carer and family members can be challenging. The results underscore the importance of providing a programme of support to meet the varied needs of informal carers with an explicit aim of assisting carers in their day-to-day problem solving. It should also help to address issues carers may have about causality, including beliefs about self-blame, and identifying effective coping strategies.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: Intimate partner violence (IPV) has a significant impact on the onset, duration and recurrence of mental health problems. Prevalence rates of IPV are significantly higher in mental health services, but the studies are limited. Accurate assessment of IPV is important for decision making in risk assessment and safety planning within mental health nursing. Psychometrically tested tools are the most accurate way to identifying all areas of IPV abuse: physical, sexual and psychological. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: Ten IPV screening tools were identified in healthcare and three tools; Women Abuse Screen Tool (WAST), Abuse Assessment Screen (AAS) and Humiliation, Afraid, Rape and Kick (HARK) were identified as having strong psychometric values as they assessed all areas of IPV and were validated against an appropriate reference standard. None of the three IPV tools identified (WAST, AAS, HARK) were tested on men or in mental health settings impacting the gender sensitivities of the tools and the reliability of the prevalence rates of IPV in mental healthcare. Over seventy percent of the studies reviewed were conducted in America this impacts the cultural sensitivities of the IPV tools. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: IPV screening needs to be incorporated as a priority in mental health services in order to reduce the morbidity and mortality issues associated with this abuse. Psychometric tools to screen for IPV need to be incorporated to assist mental health professionals in decision making in risk assessment and safety planning. Further research is needed to improve the psychometric properties of IPV tools in mental health settings, to ensure they are culturally and gender sensitive. Objective Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a public health priority due to the physical and mental impacts it has on health. No existing reviews have focused on the psychometric properties of IPV screening tools used to screen men and women within a mental health context. This review aimed to identify the best psychometrically tested screening tools available to assess all areas of IPV in men and women in mental health setting. Method Databases psycArticles, PsycINFO, Social Science, CINAHL, PubMed and Cochrane were searched from their starting date through to July 2015. Eligible studies were published in peer-reviewed publications in English. Results Thirty-six studies met the inclusion criteria. Ten IPV screening tools were identified. Three tools assessed all areas of IPV and were validated against an appropriate reference standard. One study tested IPV screening tool in a mental health setting. Conclusion Mental health nurses need to incorporate a psychometrically tested IPV tool as part of risk assessment and safety planning for clients. This review identified three tools that are suitable for identifying IPV in a mental health context. However, further research is necessary to validate IPV screening tools that are culturally sensitive and have been validated with men and women.

WHAT IS KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT?: The TAS-20 is the most widely used self-reported questionnaire to assess the level of alexithymia in students and community and clinical samples. WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS TO EXISTING KNOWLEDGE?: The TAS-20-C exhibited high levels of reliability and validity, indicating that it is appropriate for the assessment of alexithymia in Chinese adolescents. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE?: Screening adolescents who are at risk of alexithymia through the TAS-20 could help to perform necessary and effective precautions to decrease the adverse effects of alexithymia, such as the risks of developing depressive mood and behavioral problems. Purpose The aim of this study was to examine the psychometric properties of the Chinese version of the 20-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20-C) in a sample of Chinese adolescents. Method Adolescents (n = 1260) recruited from three schools in mainland China completed the TAS-20-C, the somatization subscale of the Symptom Checklist 90 (SCL-90) and Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). Five different factorial models of the TAS-20 were tested using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA). Cronbach's α, mean inter-item correlations and predictive validity were also evaluated. Results Among those five different factorial models, the four-factor structure model was suitable and invariant across gender and age in this sample. The TAS-20-C demonstrated adequate internal reliability. Gender and age accounted for insignificant amounts of variability in total TAS-20-C and factor scores. TAS-20-C total and subscale scores were correlated significantly with SCL-90 somatization subscale and CES-D. Girls scored higher than boys on difficulty identifying feelings (DIF) and pragmatic thinking (PR) subscales. DIF and lack of subjective significance or importance of emotions (IMs) subscale scores were higher among younger than among middle and older adolescents. Implications for Practice Validating the TAS-20 in adolescents is quite important to use it in evaluating adolescents' alexithymia, and screen those at risk of alexithymia.

Recent evidence indicates a widening gap in fruit and vegetable (F/V) consumption between high- and low-income Americans. This gap is related, in part, to decreased access to food retailers that sell fresh F/V in low-income communities. Farmers' markets are identified as a strategy for improving F/V consumption by increasing access to these foods. The aim of this systematic review was to examine literature published from 1994 to 2014 to identify facilitators and barriers of farmers' markets use, particularly among low-income consumers. Peer-reviewed literature was identified in Ebsco Host (Academic Search Complete). Inclusion criteria for abstract review was primary research focused on farmers' market use identifying 87 studies for full-text review. Full-text review identified articles focused on facilitators and/or barriers of farmers' market use resulting in 49 articles. At least two reviewers completed review of all articles. Of the 49 articles, 39% specified inclusion of low-income consumers and fewer than 15% focused on racial and ethnic minorities. Few studies were guided by theory and/or used standardized metrics. Results indicate farmers' market use is influenced by multiple economic, service delivery, spatial-temporal, social, and personal factors. Among studies that included low-income populations (n=19), key barriers to farmers' market use were perceptions that food assistance benefits were not accepted, belief that food variety at farmers' markets was limited, lack of access to transportation, lack of racial/ethnic diversity in the market space, and mismatch between markets and personal lifestyles. There is wide variation in study design and reporting standards and infrequent use of standardized measures limiting comparisons across studies. There is a need to establish valid and reliable metrics and reporting standards for evaluating farmers' markets. Findings may inform interventions, programs, and policies to promote farmers' market use.

An increasing attention is being paid to disclosures of conflicts of interests in the field of oncology. The purpose of this study was to examine how radiation oncologists report their conflicts of interests with pharmaceutical or technology industries. We collected the data of conflicts of interests disclosures in the abstract books from the annual 2012 and 2013 meetings of the American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) in Miami (FL, USA), and in Atlanta (GA, USA), respectively. Geographic origins of abstracts as well other factors were examined. We identified a total of 4219 abstracts published in the past two years. The total number of involved authors was of 28,283. All of the published abstracts had conflicts of interests disclosures. Amongst them, 563 abstracts (13.4%) reported at least one potential conflict of interests, in which 1264 (4.5%) declared a potential conflict of interests in their disclosures. Geographic distribution of abstracts with financial relationship was as following: 67.9%, 15.5%, 7.7% and 7.7% for USA, Europe, Asia/Pacifica, and Canada, respectively. Abstracts with conflict of interest originated from North America in 75.6% of cases. USA distribution was 70.6% and 29.4% for Eastern and Western, respectively. The proportion of physicians declaring financial conflicts of interests remains extremely low, whichever geographic area authors are from. In comparison to the rest of the world, the US proved itself better at declaring potential links. Changes in medical culture and education could represent a significant step to improve the process of revealing conflicts of interest in medical journal as well as in international meetings.

This study examined the impact of culture on the qualitative and quantitative features of possible selves. Young adults from Turkey (n=55), Serbia (n=64), and the United Kingdom (n=73) generated images of eight possible selves (e.g. I will be a doctor) which were dated and rated for vividness, positivity, imagery perspective, rehearsal, and according to whether or not they involved other people. All possible selves were coded according to categories (e.g. job, parenthood, self-improvement). There were cross-cultural differences in the types of possible selves generated and in the ratings for vividness, positivity, and rehearsal. Across all three cultures, specific possible selves were more frequently generated than abstract possible selves. Specific possible selves were rated as significantly more vivid and were dated as emerging later than abstract possible selves. Results are discussed with reference to cultural life scripts and the effects of culture on future cognitions.

This article presents an ethnographic study of regulatory decision-making regarding the cost-effectiveness of expensive medicines at the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in England. We explored trust as one important mechanism by which problems of complexity and uncertainty were resolved. Existing studies note the salience of trust for regulatory decisions, by which the appraisal of people becomes a proxy for appraising technologies themselves. Although such (dis)trust in manufacturers was one important influence, we describe a more intricate web of (dis)trust relations also involving various expert advisors, fellow committee members and committee Chairs. Within these complex chains of relations, we found examples of both more blind-acquiescent and more critical-Investigative forms of trust as well as, at times, pronounced distrust. Difficulties in overcoming uncertainty through other means obliged trust in some contexts, although not in others. (Dis)trust was constructed through inferences involving abstract systems alongside actors' oral and written presentations-of-self. Systemic features and 'forced options' to trust indicate potential insidious processes of regulatory capture.

To identify the risk factors for and adverse newborn outcomes associated with maternal deaths from direct and indirect causes in the UK. Unmatched case-control analysis. All hospitals caring for pregnant women in the UK. Comprised 383 women who died (cases) from direct or indirect causes from 2009 to 2013 (Confidential Enquiry into Maternal Deaths in the UK) and 1516 women who did not have any life-threatening complications during pregnancy and childbirth (controls) obtained from UK Obstetric Surveillance System (UKOSS). Multivariable regression analyses were undertaken to examine potential risk factors, their incremental effects, and adverse newborn outcomes associated with maternal deaths. Odds ratios associated for risk factors for maternal death and newborn outcomes (stillbirth, admission to neonatal intensive care unit [NICU], early neonatal death) and incremental risk. Seven factors, of 13 examined, were independently associated with increased odds of maternal death: pre-existing medical comorbidities (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 8.65; 95% CI 6.29-11.90), anaemia during pregnancy (aOR 3.58; 95% CI 1.14-11.21), previous pregnancy problems (aOR 1.85; 95% CI 1.33-2.57), inadequate use of antenatal care (aOR 46.85; 95% CI 19.61-111.94), substance misuse (aOR 12.21; 95% CI 2.33-63.98), unemployment (aOR 1.81; 95% CI 1.08-3.04) and maternal age (aOR 1.06; 95% CI 1.04-1.09). There was a four-fold increase in the odds of death per unit increase in the number of risk factors. Odds of stillbirth, admission to NICU and early neonatal death were higher among women who died. This study reiterates the need for optimal care for women with medical comorbidities and older age, and the importance of adequate antenatal care. It demonstrates the existence of socio-economic inequalities in maternal death in the UK. Medical comorbidities and socio-economic inequalities are important risk factors for maternal death in the UK.

To compare methodology used to assign cause of and factors contributing to maternal death. Reproductive Age Mortality Study. Malawi. Maternal deaths among women of reproductive age. We compared cause of death as assigned by a facility-based maternal death review team, an expert panel using the International Classification of Disease, 10th revision (ICD-10) cause classification for deaths during pregnancy, childbirth and the puerperium (ICD-MM) and a computer-based probabilistic program (InterVA-4). Number and cause of maternal deaths. The majority of maternal deaths occurred at a health facility (94/151; 62.3%). The estimated maternal mortality ratio was 363 per 100 000 live births (95% CI 307-425). There was poor agreement between cause of death assigned by a facility-based maternal death review team and an expert panel (κ = 0.37, 86 maternal deaths). The review team considered 36% of maternal deaths to be indirect and caused by non-obstetric complications (ICD-MM Group 7) whereas the expert panel considered only 17.4% to be indirect maternal deaths with 33.7% due to obstetric haemorrhage (ICD-MM Group 3). The review team incorrectly assigned a contributing condition rather than cause of death in up to 15.1% of cases. Agreement between the expert panel and InterVA-4 regarding cause of death was good (κ = 0.66, 151 maternal deaths). However, contributing conditions are not identified by InterVA-4. Training in the use of ICD-MM is needed for healthcare providers conducting maternal death reviews to be able to correctly assign underlying cause of death and contributing factors. Such information can help to identify what improvements in quality of care are needed. For maternal deaths assigning cause of death is best done by an expert panel and helps to identify where quality of care needs to be improved.

Intimate partner violence (IPV) is of particular concern during pregnancy when not one, but two lives are at risk. Previous meta-analyses have suggested an association between IPV and adverse birth outcomes; however, many large studies have since been published, illustrating the need for updated pooled effect estimates. To evaluate the relationship between IPV during pregnancy and the risk of preterm birth (PTB), low-birthweight (LBW), and small-for-gestational-age (SGA) infants. We searched PubMed and SCOPUS (from inception until May 2015), and the reference lists of the relevant studies. Observational studies comparing the rates of at least one adverse birth outcome (SGA, LBW, or PTB) in women who experienced IPV during pregnancy and those who did not. Data extracted from 50 studies were pooled and pooled odds ratios were calculated using random-effects models. Intimate partner violence (IPV) was significantly associated with PTB (OR 1.91, 95% CI 1.60-2.29) and LBW (OR 2.11, 95% CI 1.68-2.65), although a large level of heterogeneity was present for both (I(2)  = 84 and 91%, respectively). The association with SGA was less pronounced and marginally significant (OR 1.37, 95% CI 1.02-1.84), although fewer studies were available for meta-analysis (n = 7). Our meta-analysis indicates that women who experienced IPV during pregnancy are at increased risk of having a PTB, and an LBW or an SGA infant. More studies examining the association between IPV and SGA are needed. Meta-analysis of IPV during pregnancy finds increased risk for preterm birth, LBW and SGA infants.

To determine trends in characteristics associated with contraceptive use at coitarche from 1995 to 2006-2010. The National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) 1995 and 2006-2010 databases were used to abstract variables of interest. Generalized linear models (GLM) were applied to examine the association between the use of contraceptive methods at coitarche and variables abstracted for each database. Of the 9599 women from the 1995 database included in this study, 3885 (40%) used contraception at coitarche in comparison to 4860 (82%) out of 5931 women assessed in 2006-2010. For both time periods, Hispanic women were significantly less likely to use contraception at coitarche when compared to White women. In the 1995 database, only women from families with incomes >$50,000 were more likely to use contraception at coitarche, while women from families with income > $20,000 were more likely to use contraception at coitarche in 2006-2010. There were some differences noted in the association between age at coitarche and contraception use at coitarche, but in general, women who had a higher age at coitarche were more likely to use contraception. For both time periods, women were more likely to use contraception at coitarche if they used barrier methods as their first form of contraception or if they obtained their first contraceptive method from a spouse, partner, or friend. Our results suggest that access to contraception may be associated with use of a contraceptive method at coitarche. Innovative measures need to be investigated so that this young population has increased access to more reliable methods before their first sexual experience.

The drug product development process for proteins went through its infancy in the early eighties of last century and is in its maturity today. This has been driven largely by the rapid growth of the biotechnology industry, which led to the development and issuance of many regulatory guidelines/directories, especially those through the International Conference of Harmonization (ICH). These guidelines have certainly guided different aspects of a drug product development process. On the other hand, they were issued separately on different topics and in different time periods. An integration of all relevant guidelines into the corresponding areas in drug product development would greatly facilitate the development process. The purpose of this short review is to integrate the relevant (mainly ICH) regulatory guidelines into protein drug product development and to discuss remaining issues, which may lead to further revision of existing guidelines or development of new ones. Drug product development scientists need to collect adequate and relevant development data for a successful product registration. The key is the ability to justify the final drug product in terms of choice of the drug product formulation, container closure system, and manufacturing process. The drug product development process for proteins has matured today, largely due to the rapid growth of the biotechnology industry. In this process, many regulatory guidelines/directories were developed and issued, especially through the International Conference of Harmonization (ICH). However, they were issued separately on different topics and in different time periods. An integration of all relevant guidelines into the corresponding areas in drug product development would greatly facilitate the development process. The purpose of this short review is to integrate the relevant (mainly ICH) regulatory guidelines into protein drug product development and to discuss remaining issues, which may lead to further revision of existing guidelines or development of new ones. Drug product development scientists need to collect adequate and relevant development data for a successful product registration. The key is the ability to justify the final drug product in terms of choice of the product formulation, container closure system, and manufacturing process.

The Cervical Spine Research Society Europe (CSRS-E) actively promotes scientific activities, the annual meeting being the most evident of them. The publication rate of oral and poster presentations at the annual meeting could be a measure for the success of the promotional activities. The publication rates of abstracts presented at the annual European meetings of the CSRS are unknown. The quality of the abstracts presented at a conference is reflected by the publication rate. A high publication rate is usually interpreted as representative of high scientific value of the conference. Poster and podium presentations from the 2007 to 2012 annual meetings were identified. Pubmed was used to search for the abstract title and/or the combination of authors to verify whether the data were published in a peer-reviewed journal. Abstracts were considered published if the data presented at the meeting were identical to that in the publication. The journals in which the data were published were identified, as well as the origin of the research centre. From 2007 to 2012 826 abstracts were featured at the CSRS Europe annual meetings. There were 236 podium presentations and 590 poster presentations. 42 % of the podium presentations resulted in a publication, and 28 % of the poster presentations led to a publication. Overall, 32 % of accepted abstracts effectuated a publication in a peer-reviewed scientific journal. Abstracts from European research groups had a publication rate of 29 % compared to 34 % for abstracts from non-European research groups. Spine, European Spine Journal, Journal of Spinal Disorders and Techniques and J Neurosurgery Spine were the most common publication journals for the abstracts. The mean impact factor of the journals in which was published was 2.2. 42 % of the abstracts that were accepted for podium presentation at the CSRS Europe resulted in a publication in peer-reviewed MEDLINE indexed journals. Publication rates are at the high end of the publication rate spectrum of abstracts accepted for European scientific meetings.

Abstract. This paper examines the effectiveness of media in public awareness of the HIV/AIDS issue among the public in an area in central Selangor, comprising Kuala Lumpur and its surroundings and suburbs in Malaysia. Cross-sectional survey questionnaires were distributed to 384 respondents about accessing the public awareness of modes of HIV transmission, perceptions and attitudes towards people living with HIV/AIDS, as well as people's understanding about government policies to curb HIV/AIDS. Health care practitioners and newspapers were the preferred sources of information seeking on HIV/AIDS among the public. Most of the respondents were aware of the modes of HIV transmission. However, they were some respondents who still have misconceptions about the modes of transmission. Most of the respondents were not aware about the government's significant policies to address HIV/AIDS in the region. Overall, the respondents had certain knowledge about HIV transmission modes and moderate positive perceptions and attitudes towards people living with HIV/AIDS. Future studies should be conducted to examine about who sets the agenda in the media, and apart from gatekeepers, who are the real decision makers in deciding what is important to inform the public.

To determine the reliability of Internet-based information on community-based weight-loss programs and grade their degree of concordance with 2013 American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, and The Obesity Society weight-management guidelines. An online search was conducted for weight-loss programs in the Maryland-Washington, DC-Virginia corridor. Content analysis was performed to abstract program components from their websites, and then 80 programs were randomly selected for a telephone survey to verify this information. Reliability of Internet information was determined in comparison with telephone interview responses. Of the 191 programs, 1% were graded as high, 8% as moderate, and 91% as low with respect to guideline concordance based on website content. Fifty-two programs participated in the telephone survey (65% response rate). Program intensity, diet, physical activity, and use of behavioral strategies were underreported on websites as compared to description of these activities during the phone interview. Within the subsample, 6% of programs were graded as high based on website information, whereas 19% were graded as high after the telephone interview. Most weight-loss programs in an urban, mid-Atlantic region do not currently offer guideline-concordant practices and fail to disclose key information online, which may make clinician referrals challenging.

The gender-based nature of suicide-related behaviour is largely accepted. However, studies that report exclusively on female suicides are rare. Here we demonstrate how female suicide has effectively been 'othered' and appears incidental in studies which compare female and male behaviour. We highlight how recent studies of suicide have tended to be dominated by male-only approaches, which increasingly link issues of masculinity with male death by suicide. Drawing on data collected from the general practitioner and coroner's office, we then apply the sociological autopsy approach to a cohort of 78 deaths recorded as suicides in the UK between 2007 and 2009. By focusing on females in isolation from males, we demonstrate that, as in male-only suicide studies, it is similarly possible to draw out issues associated with the feminine identity, which can be linked to death by suicide. We find that bereavement, sexual violence and motherhood could all be linked to the lives and help-seeking of the females who died. In closing, we suggest that a reorientation towards sociological analytic approaches of female suicide may help to produce further reductions in the rate of female death by suicide. A Virtual Abstract of this paper can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0w9KKMFdIQ.

African Americans in the United States undergo total knee arthroplasty (TKA) less often than whites, in part because of lower expectations among African Americans for successful surgery. Whether this lower expectation is justified is unknown. Our objective is to compare health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and satisfaction after TKA between African Americans and whites. A systematic review of English language articles using Medline, the Cochrane register, Embase (April 21, 2015), and a hand search of unlisted disparities journals was performed. Search terms included total knee replacement, quality of life, outcomes, and satisfaction. High-quality cohort studies that examined HRQOL in African Americans and white adults 6 months or more after TKA were included. Of the 4781 studies screened by title, and 346 by abstract, 7 studies included race in their analysis. Results included 5570 TKA patients, 4077 whites (89%), and 482 (11%) blacks. Because studies used different outcome measures and were inconsistent in their adjustment for confounders, we could not perform a quantitative synthesis of results. In 5 studies, US blacks had worse pain, in 5 worse function, and in 1 less satisfaction 6 months to 2 years after TKA. US blacks may derive less benefit from TKA than whites as measured by HRQOL, pain, function, and satisfaction. Many studies assessing predictors of patient-related TKA outcomes fail to analyze race as a variable, which limited our study. More studies assessing the effect of race and socioeconomic factors on TKA outcome are needed.

To provide information on trends on official development assistance (ODA) disbursement patterns for reproductive health activities in 18 conflict-affected countries. Secondary data analysis. 18 conflict-affected countries and 36 non-conflict-affected countries. The Creditor Reporting System (CRS) database was analyzed for ODA disbursement for direct and indirect reproductive health activities to 18 conflict-affected countries (2002-2011). A comparative analysis was also made with 36 non-conflict-affected counties in the same 'least-developed' income category. Multivariate regression analyses examined associations between conflict status and reproductive health ODA and between reproductive needs and ODA disbursements. Patterns of ODA disbursements (constant U.S. dollars) for reproductive health activities. The average annual ODA disbursed for reproductive health to 18 conflict-affected countries from 2002 to 2011 was US$ 1.93 per person per year. There was an increase of 298% in ODA for reproductive health activities to the conflict-affected countries between 2002 and 2011; 56% of this increase was due to increases in HIV/AIDS funding. The average annual per capita reproductive health ODA disbursed to least-developed non-conflict-affected countries was 57% higher than to least-developed conflict-affected countries. Regression analyses confirmed disparities in ODA to and between conflict-affected countries. Despite increases in ODA for reproductive health for conflict-affected countries (albeit largely for HIV/AIDS activities), considerable disparities remains. Study tracking 10 years of aid for reproductive aid shows major disparities for conflict-affected countries.

The aim was to compare cognitive function in older suicide attempters with a population-based comparison group. Hospitalized suicide attempters aged 70 years and older were assessed cognitively at baseline (n = 99) and 1-year follow-up (n = 59). Depression symptoms were rated with the Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Results of cognitive assessments in attempters were compared with results in nonattempter comparison subjects (n = 115) selected among participants in our population-based health studies to yield a similar distribution of MADRS scores. Suicide attempters scored lower on Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) than comparison persons. Among attempters, the mean MMSE score was lower in those with medically serious attempts. Attempters displayed poorer performance on tests of pentagon drawing and abstract thinking compared to comparison persons, and the results remained also after exclusion of those with medically serious attempts. At 1-year follow-up, significant improvement in MADRS scores was observed in the attempters. No evidence of improvement could be shown regarding cognitive deficits. Older suicide attempters may have cognitive deficits, which may in part be related to the attempt itself. This needs to be taken into account when designing intervention strategies.

Four studies examined how mental abstraction affects how people perceive their relationships with other people, specifically, how these relationships may be categorized in social groups. We expected that individuals induced to think abstractly would report fewer more global social groups, compared to those induced to think concretely, who would report more specific groups. However, induced abstract mindset did not affect how people structured their social groups (Study 2-4), despite evidence that the mindset manipulation changed the level of abstraction in their thoughts (Study 3) and evidence that it changed how people structured groups for a control condition (household objects, Study 4). Together, these studies suggest that while the way people organize their relationships into groups is malleable; cognitive abstraction does not seem to affect how people categorize their relationships into social groups.

This paper summarizes the discussions and insights gained from the key themes that emerged during the Quality by Design (QbD) Workshop held at the European Medicines Agency (EMA) offices in London, UK, on 28-29 January 2014. Industry and regulators shared practical experiences from six case studies (five approved small molecule products and one phase 3 biotechnological product) based on QbD submissions by five companies (AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, NovoNordisk, and Pfizer).The case studies covered a range of different development, regulatory submission, and post-approval aspects of QbD and were developed through confidential discussions between the company representatives and regulators. Key themes that emerged from the workshop discussions were: 1. presentation of information in submissions (development story and the presentation of information in marketing authorization applications; risk assessment and criticality); 2. development aspects (design space; use of models; control strategy); and 3. post-approval aspects (lifecycle management; dossier-quality system interactions; handling of deviations). Many aspects of QbD for biotechnological products are similar to small molecules, but there are some important differences highlighted in this paper.The final section of the paper discusses some proposals for future developments to address the issues that were identified. This paper summarizes the discussions and insights gained from the key themes that emerged during the Quality by Design (QbD) Workshop held at the European Medicines Agency offices in London, UK, on 28-29 January 2014. Industry and regulators shared practical experiences from six case studies (five approved small-molecule products and one phase 3 biotechnological product) based on QbD submissions by five companies (AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, NovoNordisk, and Pfizer).The case studies covered a range of different development, regulatory submission, and post-approval aspects of QbD and were developed through confidential discussions between the company representatives and regulators. Key themes that emerged from the workshop discussions were: 1. presentation of information in submissions (development story and the presentation of information in marketing authorization applications; risk assessment and criticality); 2. development aspects (design space; use of models; control strategy); and 3. post-approval aspects (lifecycle management; dossier-quality system interactions; handling of deviations). Many aspects of QbD for biotechnological products are similar to small molecules, but there are some important differences highlighted in this paper.The final section of the paper discusses some proposals for future developments to address the issues that were identified.

People often make decisions in a social environment. The present work examines social influence on people's decisions in a sequential decision-making situation. In the first experimental study, we implemented an information cascade paradigm, illustrating that people infer information from decisions of others and use this information to make their own decisions. We followed a cognitive modeling approach to elicit the weight people give to social as compared to private individual information. The proposed social influence model shows that participants overweight their own private information relative to social information, contrary to the normative Bayesian account. In our second study, we embedded the abstract decision problem of Study 1 in a medical decision-making problem. We examined whether in a medical situation people also take others' authority into account in addition to the information that their decisions convey. The social influence model illustrates that people weight social information differentially according to the authority of other decision makers. The influence of authority was strongest when an authority's decision contrasted with private information. Both studies illustrate how the social environment provides sources of information that people integrate differently for their decisions.

Assessment reactivity may be a factor in the modest results of brief interventions for substance use in the emergency department (ED). The presence of assessment reactivity in studies of interventions for intimate partner violence (IPV) has not been studied. Our objectives were to identify ED IPV intervention studies and evaluate the presence of a consistently positive effect on the control groups. We performed a systematic search of electronic databases for English=language intervention studies addressing IPV in the ED published since 1990. Study selection and assessment of methodologic quality were performed by two independent reviewers. Data extraction was performed by one reviewer and then independently checked for completeness and accuracy by a second reviewer. Of 3,620 unique manuscripts identified by database search, 667 underwent abstract review and 12 underwent full-text review. Only three met full eligibility criteria; data on the control arm were available for two studies. In these two studies, IPV-related outcomes improved for both the experimental and control condition. The paucity of controlled trials of IPV precluded a robust evaluation for assessment reactivity. This study highlighted a critical gap in ED research on IPV.

The aim of this study was to test whether there is statistically significant sympathetic nervous system (SNS) synchrony between participants in couple therapy. To our knowledge, this is the first study to measure psychophysiological synchrony during therapy in a multiactor setting. The study focuses on electrodermal activity (EDA) in the second couple therapy session from 10 different cases (20 clients, 10 therapists working in pairs). The EDA concordance index was used as a measure of SNS synchrony between dyads, and synchrony was found in 85% of all the dyads. Surprisingly, co-therapists exhibited the highest levels of synchrony, whereas couples exhibited the lowest synchrony. The client-therapist synchrony was lower than that of the co-therapists, but higher than that of the couples. A Video Abstract is available next to the online version of this article on the JMFT web site.

Although there is a documented social gradient for osteoporosis, the underlying mechanism(s) for that gradient remain unknown. We propose a conceptual model based upon the allostatic load theory, to suggest how DNA methylation (DNAm) might underpin the social gradient in osteoporosis and fracture. We hypothesise that social disadvantage is associated with priming of inflammatory pathways mediated by epigenetic modification that leads to an enhanced state of inflammatory reactivity and oxidative stress, and thus places socially disadvantaged individuals at greater risk of osteoporotic fracture. Based on a review of the literature, we present a conceptual model in which social disadvantage increases stress throughout the lifespan, and engenders a proinflammatory epigenetic signature, leading to a heightened inflammatory state that increases risk for osteoporotic fracture in disadvantaged groups that are chronically stressed. Our model proposes that, in addition to the direct biological effects exerted on bone by factors such as physical activity and nutrition, the recognised socially patterned risk factors for osteoporosis also act via epigenetic-mediated dysregulation of inflammation. DNAm is a dynamic modulator of gene expression with considerable relevance to the field of osteoporosis. Elucidating the extent to which this epigenetic mechanism transduces the psycho-social environment to increase the risk of osteoporotic fracture may yield novel entry points for intervention that can be used to reduce individual and population-wide risks for osteoporotic fracture. Specifically, an epigenetic evidence-base may strengthen the importance of lifestyle modification and stress reduction programs, and help to reduce health inequities across social groups. Our conceptual model proposes how DNA methylation might underpin the social gradient in osteoporotic fracture. We suggest that social disadvantage is associated with priming of inflammatory signalling pathways, which is mediated by epigenetic modifications, leading to a chronically heightened inflammatory state that places disadvantaged individuals at greater risk of osteoporosis.

Electronic medical records (EMRs) are being increasingly utilized to conduct clinical and epidemiologic research in numerous fields. To monitor and improve care of HIV-infected patients in Washington, DC, one of the most severely affected urban areas in the United States, we developed a city-wide database across 13 clinical sites using electronic data abstraction and manual data entry from EMRs. To develop this unique longitudinal cohort, a web-based electronic data capture system (Discovere®) was used. An Agile software development methodology was implemented across multiple EMR platforms. Clinical informatics staff worked with information technology specialists from each site to abstract data electronically from each respective site's EMR through an extract, transform, and load process. Since enrollment began in 2011, more than 7000 patients have been enrolled, with longitudinal clinical data available on all patients. Data sets are produced for scientific analyses on a quarterly basis, and benchmarking reports are generated semi-annually enabling each site to compare their participants' clinical status, treatments, and outcomes to the aggregated summaries from all other sites. Numerous technical challenges were identified and innovative solutions developed to ensure the successful implementation of the DC Cohort. Central to the success of this project was the broad collaboration established between government, academia, clinics, community, information technology staff, and the patients themselves. Our experiences may have practical implications for researchers who seek to merge data from diverse clinical databases, and are applicable to the study of health-related issues beyond HIV.

The source of research may influence one's interpretation of it in either negative or positive ways, however, there are no robust experiments to determine how source impacts on one's judgment of the research article. We determine the impact of source on respondents' assessment of the quality and relevance of selected research abstracts. Web-based survey design using four healthcare research abstracts previously published and included in Cochrane Reviews. All Council on the Education of Public Health-accredited Schools and Programmes of Public Health in the USA. 899 core faculty members (full, associate and assistant professors) Each of the four abstracts appeared with a high-income source half of the time, and low-income source half of the time. Participants each reviewed the same four abstracts, but were randomly allocated to receive two abstracts with high-income source, and two abstracts with low-income source, allowing for within-abstract comparison of quality and relevance Within-abstract comparison of participants' rating scores on two measures--strength of the evidence, and likelihood of referral to a peer (1-10 rating scale). OR was calculated using a generalised ordered logit model adjusting for sociodemographic covariates. Participants who received high income country source abstracts were equal in all known characteristics to the participants who received the abstracts with low income country sources. For one of the four abstracts (a randomised, controlled trial of a pharmaceutical intervention), likelihood of referral to a peer was greater if the source was a high income country (OR 1.28, 1.02 to 1.62, p<0.05). All things being equal, in one of the four abstracts, the respondents were influenced by a high-income source in their rating of research abstracts. More research may be needed to explore how the origin of a research article may lead to stereotype activation and application in research evaluation.

The aim of the present study was to explore the strengths children reported to have acquired while coping with their parents illness, and the external factors these children indicated had facilitated their coping process. A systematic literature search was conducted of peer-reviewed papers that focused on self-reported experiences of children with parents who had mental illness, and revealed their strengths and resources. The search included the following databases: MEDLINE, PsycINFO, and CINAHL. Results were filtered according to whether search terms appeared in the title or abstract. Fifty-seven full-text papers were reviewed; 26 of them met the inclusion criteria and were included in the review. The statements were analysed using content analysis. The search identified 160 relevant statements, 38 (24%) of which could be described as self-reported strengths, and 122 (76%) as self-reported resources. According to these statements, the children described themselves as more mature, independent, and empathic than their peers who did not have a parent with a mental illness, and as having acquired several abilities. The statements about resources indicated that the children regarded social support, information, and particularly the support of mental health-care professionals as helpful when living with a parent with a mental illness. Recommendations for nursing actions to support children's ability to cope with their parents' illness are outlined.

The abstract consideration of ethical questions in family and informal caregiving might rightly be criticized for ignoring the lived experience of people. This chapter seeks to avoid such oversight by reflecting on ethical issues in family care in a way that is based on careful social scientific inquiry into the well-being of caregivers. The chapter draws on our research and experience in working with family caregivers, both professionally and personally. We step back from a practical concern with policies to support the well-being of caregivers to consider ethical issues associated with their typically hidden role. The chapter begins by noting the growing reliance on family care today. It proceeds to outline the dynamic experience of moving into and out of the caregiver role, before discussing key ethical issues associated with family care. Many of these stem from the risk that caregivers can come to share in the reduced circumstances and vulnerability of those for whom they care. Critical ethical issues are related to the typically "unboundaried" responsibility of family caregivers for the well-being of the cared-for person, something that can be contrasted with the more boundaried and intermittent responsibility of formal caregivers. Additionally, all too often, family caregivers encounter situations where their responsibilities exceed their capacities, but where a choice to not provide care will result in harm to the cared-for person. In discussing these issues, this chapter seeks to make the case for developing more responsive forms of support that promote positive benefits for both caregivers and care recipients.

To determine the publication sources of urology articles within EvidenceUpdates, a second-order peer review system of the medical literature designed to identify high-quality articles to support up-to-date and evidence-based clinical decisions. Using administrator-level access, all EvidenceUpdates citations from 2005 to 2014 were downloaded from the topics 'Surgery-Urology' and 'Oncology-Genitourinary'. Data fields accessed included PubMed unique reference identifier, study title, abstract, journal and date of publication, as well as clinical relevance and newsworthiness ratings as determined by discipline-specific physician raters. The citations were then coded by clinical topic (oncology, voiding dysfunction, erectile dysfunction/infertility, infection/inflammation, stones/endourology/laparoscopy, trauma/reconstruction, transplant, or other), journal category (general medical journal, oncology journal, urology journal, non-urology specialty journal, Cochrane review, or other), and study design (randomised controlled trial [RCT], systematic review, observational study, or other). Articles that were perceived to be misclassified and/or of no direct interest to urologists were excluded. Descriptive statistics using proportions and 95% confidence intervals, as well as means and standard deviations (SDs) were used to characterise the overall data cohort and to analyse trends over time. We identified 731 unique citations classified under either 'Surgery-Urology' or 'Oncology-Genitourinary' for analysis after exclusions. Between 2005 and 2014, the most common topics were oncology (48.6%, 355 articles) and voiding dysfunction (21.8%, 159). Within the topic of oncology, prostate cancer contributed over half the studies (54.6%, n = 194). The most common study types were RCTs (42.3%, 309 articles) and systematic reviews (39.6%, 290). Systematic reviews had a nearly fourfold relative increase within less than a decade. The largest proportion of studies relevant to urology were published in general oncology journals (20.0%, n = 146), followed by the Cochrane Library (19.3%, n = 141) and general medical journals (17.2%, n = 126). Urology-specific journals contributed to only approximately one-tenth of EvidenceUpdates alerts (9.4%, n = 69), with the highest contribution occurring during the 2013/2014 period. For clinical relevance and newsworthiness scores (each graded on scales of 1-7), urology journals scored the highest in clinical relevance with a mean (SD) of 5.9 (0.75) and general medical journals scored highest for newsworthiness at 5.3 (0.94). On average, RCTs scored highest both for clinical relevance and newsworthiness with mean (SD) scores of 5.71 (0.81) and 5.22 (0.91), respectively. A large number of high-quality, clinically relevant, and newsworthy peer-reviewed urology publications are published outside of traditional urology journals. This requires urologists to implement well-defined strategies to stay abreast of current best evidence.

To examine whether women who undergo in vitro fertilisation (IVF) treatment are at greater risk of postnatal suicide or postnatal depression (PND) requiring psychiatric care, compared with women who conceive spontaneously. Case-control study using data from national registers. Sweden during the period 2003-2009. Cases were 3532 primiparous women who had given birth following IVF treatment. An aged-matched control group of 8553 mothers was randomly selected from the medical birth register. Logistic regression analyses were performed with PND as the outcome, and with known risk factors of PND as well as IVF/spontaneous birth as covariates. Postnatal depression (PND), defined as diagnoses F32-F39 of the tenth edition of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10), within 12 months of childbirth. Initial analyses showed that PND was more common in the control group than in the IVF group (0.8 versus 0.4%; P = 0.04); however, these differences disappeared when confounding factors were controlled for. A history of any psychiatric illness (P = 0.000; odds ratio, OR = 25.5; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI = 11.7-55.5), any previous affective disorder (P = 0.000; OR = 26.0; 95% CI = 10.5-64.0), or specifically a personality disorder (P = 0.028; OR = 3.8; 95% CI = 1.2-12.7) increased the risk of PND. No woman in either group committed suicide during the first year after childbirth. Whereas mothers who receive IVF treatment are not at increased risk of PND, the risk is increased among mothers with a history of mental illness. A Swedish study on 3532 women showed that IVF treatment does not increase the risk of postnatal depression.

In reaction to breaches of data integrity in the pharmaceutical industry, regulatory authorities have introduced inspection approaches or initiatives with the aim of reducing occurrences of data integrity problems. This review article-based on study of 65 cases of regulatory action from 2002 to 2014-provides an overview of current regulatory thinking and action on breaches of data integrity affecting GxP (health-related regulations) processes supporting non-clinical studies, clinical studies, laboratory controls, and production controls. These case studies largely represent position of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the regulatory agencies affiliated with the European Medicines Agency. Also discussed is the role of human factors as a potential source of data integrity problems. The article concludes by recommending some remedial controls that could be established to avoid or reduce occurrences of data integrity problems.Lay Abstract: In fulfilling their mission to protect public health, regulatory agencies (e.g., U.S. Food and Drug Administration, European Medicines Agency) must establish confidence that medical products they approve are fit for their intended use. In so doing they rely on scientific and operational data generated during research, development, manufacturing, sales, marketing, distribution, and post-marketing surveillance activities. The level of confidence they build is directly proportional to the scientific validity and integrity of data presented to them by the sponsors of medical products. In this article we present analysis of 65 case studies that document regulatory action taken by various regulatory agencies on breach of data integrity between 2002 and 2014. The ensuing discussion on current trends largely represents position of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency. The article concludes by proposing some remedial controls that could be established by pharmaceutical companies to avoid or reduce occurrences of data integrity problems.

We evaluated the association of maternal pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI), gestational weight gain (GWG), and maternal smoking with aerobic fitness in young men aged 19-20 years. A 19-year prospective cohort study. Data from the Northern Finland Birth Cohort 1986 (NFBC 1986) and the Sodankylä Jaeger Brigade, Finland, in 2005-6. Mothers and the 508 offspring in the NFBC 1986 who entered military service at the Sodankylä Jaeger Brigade in 2005. Associations of weight, 12-minute running test (Cooper test), and muscle fitness index (MFI) of offspring on entry to military service were evaluated with antenatal factors, including maternal smoking, pre-pregnancy BMI, and GWG. Aerobic and muscle fitness of the offspring were evaluated by the Cooper test and MFI. Maternal smoking during pregnancy was associated with lower aerobic fitness of male adolescents, measured by the Cooper test (2356 m; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI 2265-2446 m), compared with the offspring of mothers who did not smoke during pregnancy (2537 m, 95% CI 2499-2574 m). This association was independent of the BMIs of both the mother and the offspring, GWG, and the smoking and physical activity of offspring (regression coefficient -140.6 m, 95% CI -273.1 to -8.0 m). High maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and excessive GWG were also associated with lower aerobic fitness of the offspring; however, this association was mediated via the weight of the offspring. Maternal smoking during pregnancy may have a negative impact on the aerobic fitness of the offspring. Study shows that young men have lower aerobic fitness if their mothers smoked during pregnancy.

Decreased fetal movement is associated with adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes; timely reporting and appropriate management may prevent stillbirth. Determine effects of interventions to enhance maternal awareness of decreased fetal movement. Cinahl, The Cochrane Library, EMBASE, MEDLINE, PsycINFO and SCOPUS databases; without limitation on language or publication year. Randomised or non-randomised studies evaluating interventions to enhance maternal awareness of decreased fetal movement. Two authors independently extracted data and assessed quality. We included 23 publications from 16 studies of fair to poor quality. We were unable to pool results due to substantial heterogeneity between studies. Three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and five non-randomised studies (NRSs), involving 72 888 and 115 435 pregnancies, respectively, assessed effects of interventions on stillbirth and perinatal death. One large cluster RCT (n = 68 654) reported no stillbirth reduction, one RCT (n = 3111) reported significant stillbirth reduction, and one RCT (n = 1123) was small with no deaths. All NRSs favoured intervention over standard care; three studies (n = 31 131) reported significant reduction, whereas two studies (n = 84 304) reported non-significant reductions in stillbirth or perinatal deaths. Promising results from NRSs warrant further research. We found no evidence of increased maternal concern following interventions. No cost-effectiveness data were available. We found no clear evidence of benefit or harm; indirect evidence suggests improved pregnancy and birth outcomes. The optimal approach to support women in monitoring their pregnancies needs to be established. Meanwhile, women need to be informed about the importance of fetal movement for fetal health. The benefits and risks of interventions to increase pregnant women's awareness of fetal movement are unclear.

Previous work has demonstrated that much violence requiring medical help is not recorded by the police. Sharing emergency department data on victims of violence is associated with reductions in community violence and is well established throughout the UK. We undertook a critical literature review to determine whether sharing ambulance data was useful to identify violence hotspots and offered unique information for violence prevention. A search of the major medical and criminological databases was undertaken using search terms related to the ambulance service, violence and assault, as well as data collection. The search was conducted within the NICE Evidence, Cochrane Library, Google Scholar, Criminal Justice Abstracts, Scopus and National Criminal Justice Reference Service databases, along with the websites of various relevant institutions. Overall, 36 papers were identified by abstract scanning and bibliography search, of which 10 were considered relevant. A further nine papers were detected in the grey literature, and two were considered to be useful in providing evidence for use of ambulance data in violence surveillance. Two of the identified papers were interventional studies, and the other 10 were observational studies. Although the standard of evidence was generally low, most studies demonstrated that ambulance services detected a substantial proportion of assaults that were not recorded by the police or the emergency departments. We identified only two interventional studies, but they were of low quality. Although the interventional evidence base is currently weak, ambulance data provide a unique source of information about the epidemiology of community violence and have the potential to improve current violent crime surveillance methods.

Life expectancy of people with Down's syndrome (DS) has increased considerably, now exceeding 60 years. People with DS start to get old around the age of 45. By referring to the WHO's International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) biopsychosocial perspective, this study aimed to present an up-to-date review of the past 14 years of literature concerning the ageing of people with DS. PUBMED, PsycInfo and the Social Sciences Citation Index were searched for studies published between 2000 and 2014. Studies were selected if they were written in English, focused on people more than 45 years of age with DS, and if terms related to DS and ageing appeared in either the title or the abstract. A total of 30 studies were retrieved and their meaningful concepts were linked to the ICF. In total, 38 ICF categories were identified that were mainly related to intellectual functions (b117) (19%), general metabolic functions (b540) (7.4%), mobility of joint functions (b710), muscle power functions (b730) (4.2%), gait pattern functions (b770) (4.2%) and structure of the brain (s110) (4.3%). Only two studies considered environmental factors, and only one considered the joint analysis of health condition and environmental factors. Data about the ageing of people with DS are predominantly based on medical evaluations and descriptions of their physical impairments. Few attempts have been made towards a comprehensive assessment of elderly people with DS with a joint analysis of their health condition and its interaction with environmental factors.

Low back pain is a common and costly health complaint for which there are several moderately effective treatments. In some fields there is evidence that funder and financial conflicts are associated with trial outcomes. It is not clear whether effect sizes in back pain trials relate to journal impact factor, reporting conflicts of interest, or reporting funding. We performed a systematic review of English-language papers reporting randomised controlled trials of treatments for non-specific low back pain, published between 2006-2012. We modelled the relationship using 5-year journal impact factor, and categories of reported of conflicts of interest, and categories of reported funding (reported none and reported some, compared to not reporting these) using meta-regression, adjusting for sample size, and publication year. We also considered whether impact factor could be predicted by the direction of outcome, or trial sample size. We could abstract data to calculate effect size in 99 of 146 trials that met our inclusion criteria. Effect size is not associated with impact factor, reporting of funding source, or reporting of conflicts of interest. However, explicitly reporting 'no trial funding' is strongly associated with larger absolute values of effect size (adjusted β=1.02 (95 % CI 0.44 to 1.59), P=0.001). Impact factor increases by 0.008 (0.004 to 0.012) per unit increase in trial sample size (P<0.001), but does not differ by reported direction of the LBP trial outcome (P=0.270). The absence of associations between effect size and impact factor, reporting sources of funding, and conflicts of interest reflects positively on research and publisher conduct in the field. Strong evidence of a large association between absolute magnitude of effect size and explicit reporting of 'no funding' suggests authors of unfunded trials are likely to report larger effect sizes, notwithstanding direction. This could relate in part to quality, resources, and/or how pragmatic a trial is.

Online service providers (OSPs)-such as AOL, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, and Twitter-significantly shape the informational environment (infosphere) and influence users' experiences and interactions within it. There is a general agreement on the centrality of OSPs in information societies, but little consensus about what principles should shape their moral responsibilities and practices. In this article, we analyse the main contributions to the debate on the moral responsibilities of OSPs. By endorsing the method of the levels of abstract (LoAs), we first analyse the moral responsibilities of OSPs in the web (LoA

Suicidal behaviour has proved to be difficult to predict, due in part to the particular limitations of introspection within suicidality. In an effort to overcome this, recent research has demonstrated the utility of indirect measures of "implicit" attitudes within the study of suicidality. However, research to date has focused predominantly on implicit self-evaluations and self-death associations. No work has examined implicit evaluations of death, despite the theoretical importance of such evaluations; "fearlessness of death" is central to both the Interpersonal Theory of Suicide and the Integrated Motivational-Volitional model of suicide.. Twenty-three psychiatric patients with current suicidal ideation and twenty-five normative university students completed two versions of the Implicit Relational Assessment Procedure (IRAP) that targeted evaluations of death. One task specified personal death (i.e., was self-focused) and the other targeted death in the abstract. Self-focused evaluations of death reliably distinguished between the two groups, correctly classifying 74% of cases, but evaluations of death in the abstract did not. The suicidal group produced specific biases indicating a rejection of the negativity of death. Results are consistent with the definition of suicidality as involving a self-focused wish to die.. For ethical reason, suicidal behaviours were not assessed in the normative group. Groups were therefore not mutually exclusive. This may have decreased the specificity of the IRAP. Suicidal ideation is associated with an implicit "fearlessness of death". The utility of implicit death-evaluations should therefore be considered alongside self-evaluations and self-death associations in the future..

The purpose of this manuscript is to compare methods and thematic representations of the challenges and supports of family caregivers identified with photovoice methodology contrasted with content analysis, a more traditional qualitative approach. Results from a photovoice study utilizing a participatory action research framework was compared to an analysis of the audio-transcripts from that study utilizing content analysis methodology. Major similarities between the results are identified with some notable differences. Content analysis provides a more in-depth and abstract elucidation of the nature of the challenges and supports of the family caregiver. The comparison provides evidence to support the trustworthiness of photovoice methodology with limitations identified. The enhanced elaboration of theme and categories with content analysis may have some advantages relevant to the utilization of this knowledge by health care professionals.

ABSTRACT In this article, insights into the lived experience of homeless women arising from a PhD study on the specialist role of the SCPHN in homelessness are presented. A key narrative text of a rough sleeping pregnant woman is included. The reflexive narrative study, used an eclectic, philosophical framework which included reflective practice/guidance, narrative inquiry, and storytelling methodologies. Story texts uniquely illuminated complex knowledge about homelessness and homeless health care. Homeless women were found to be a heterogeneous group which included former health professionals. The women's stories were often shocking; they were frequently contextualised against a background of service exclusion, including GP services, learning disability services, mental health services, housing services and social services. The role of the specialist nurse (SCPHN) in engagement with homeless people is illuminated. A therapeutic model of 'Effective Engagement with Homeless People and Homeless Families' is presented to guide health professionals in holistic care. The author invites the reader to dialogue within their teams on how homeless people are included or excluded from SCPHN services. In this way, the term 'audiencing' rather than transferability of findings is used in a continuing dialogue with the reader to improve the health and wellbeing of homeless women.

To determine demographical and behavioral characteristics associated with contraceptive use at coitarche, or first sexual experience, to determine which populations are at greatest risk of contraceptive nonuse during early sexual experiences. Cross-sectional study. We used the National Survey of Family Growth 2006-2010 database to abstract pertinent variables, including race, highest education, annual family income, parental living situation, importance of religion, age at coitarche, number of sexual partners, type of first contraception, and source of first contraception. Generalized linear models with logit link and binomial distribution were applied to examine the association between use of contraceptive methods at coitarche and the variables abstracted. Of the 5931 female participants included in the study, 1071 (18%) did not use contraceptive methods at coitarche. Only 199 (2%) of the female participants included in this study used the more reliable hormonal contraceptive methods at coitarche. Black females were significantly more likely than white females to use contraceptive methods at coitarche (p < 0.01). Females who initiated coitarche from 16 to 20 years of age were significantly more likely to use contraception at coitarche than females who had their first sexual experience at less than 16 years of age (p < 0.001). Females with greater educational background and greater family income were also significantly more likely to use contraception at coitarche (p < 0.001). Finally, females who obtained their first contraceptive methods from a spouse, partner, or friend were more likely to use contraception at coitarche than females who obtained their first method from a medical facility (p < 0.001). This study highlights several key differences between females who use contraceptive methods at coitarche versus those who do not. Greater effort needs to be focused on increasing access to more reliable contraceptive methods for young females, as females who obtain methods from nonmedical facilities are more likely to use contraceptive methods at coitarche.

To study the mapping from the retina to the brain, typically a small region of the retina is injected with a dye, which then propagates to the retina's target structures. To determine the location of the injection, usually the retina is dissected out of the eye, flattened and then imaged, causing tears and stretching of the retina. The location of the injection is then estimated from the image of the flattened retina. Here we propose a new method that avoids dissection of the retina. We have developed IntactEye, a software package that uses two orthogonal images of the intact retina to locate focal injections of a dye. The two images are taken while the retina is still inside the eye. This bypasses the dissection step, avoiding unnecessary damage to the retina, and speeds up data acquisition. By using the native spherical coordinates of the eye, we avoid distortions caused by interpreting a curved structure in a flat coordinate system. Our method compares well to the projection method and to the Retistruct package, which both use the flattened retina as a starting point. We have tested the method also on synthetic data, where the injection location is known. Our method has been designed for analysing mouse retinas, where there are no visible landmarks for discerning retinal orientation, but can also be applied to retinas from other species. IntactEye allows the user to precisely specify the location and size of a retinal injection from two orthogonal images taken of the eye. We are solving the abstract problem of locating a point on a spherical object from two orthogonal images, which might have applications outside the field of neuroscience.

The practice of medicine involves applying abstract diagnostic classifications to individual patients. Patients present with diverse histories and symptoms, and clinicians are tasked with fitting them into generic categories. They must also persuade patients, or family members, that the diagnosis is appropriate and elicit compliance with prescribed treatments. This can be especially challenging with psychiatric disorders such as autism, for which there are no clear biomarkers. In this paper, we explicate a discursive procedure, which we term category attribution. The procedure juxtaposes a narrative about the child with a claim about members of a clinically relevant category, in this case, either children with autism or typically/normally developing children. The attribution procedure carries the implication that the child does or does not belong to that category. We show that category attributions are organised in a recurrent interactional sequence. Further, we argue that category attributions encode normative expectations about child development, such that the child is rendered typical or atypical relative to clinical and social norms. Accordingly, such categorisation devices have a moral dimension as well as a clinical one.

A recent White House Council Report on Women and Girls called attention to sexual assault on college campuses and encouraged continued research on this important public health problem. Media that sexually objectify women have been identified by feminist scholars as encouraging of sexual assault, but some researchers question why portrayals that do not feature sexual assault should affect men's attitudes supportive of violence against women. Guided by the concepts of specific and abstract sexual scripting in Wright's (Communication Yearbook 35:343-386, 2011) sexual script acquisition, activation, application model of sexual media socialization, this study proposed that the more men are exposed to objectifying depictions, the more they will think of women as entities that exist for men's sexual gratification (specific sexual scripting), and that this dehumanized perspective on women may then be used to inform attitudes regarding sexual violence against women (abstract sexual scripting). Data were gathered from collegiate men sexually attracted to women (N = 187). Consistent with expectations, associations between men's exposure to objectifying media and attitudes supportive of violence against women were mediated by their notions of women as sex objects. Specifically, frequency of exposure to men's lifestyle magazines that objectify women, reality TV programs that objectify women, and pornography predicted more objectified cognitions about women, which, in turn, predicted stronger attitudes supportive of violence against women.

The purpose of this study was to compare the differences experienced by Japanese nurses working in New Zealand from an organizational and personal perspective, using a qualitative approach. Interview data was analyzed using a thematic method to abstract increasing levels of themes until one main theme explained the data: finding a voice. This core theme demonstrated that Japanese nurses had to learn to accommodate difference while learning to speak up. Moreover, this needed to occur through a number of cultural filters. The principal conclusion was that migrant nurses face multiple personal and organizational challenges when working in a new environment. Finding a voice is the method in which nurses learn to communicate and work within new healthcare settings. Nurses use a number of filters to manage the transition. The host country needs to recognize these differences and accommodate them through orientation modules.

Trainees and practicing physicians alike find breaking bad, sad, or difficult news to a patient or family member as one of the most challenging communication tasks they perform. Interpersonal and communication skills are a core competency for resident training. However, in disciplines where technical skills have a major emphasis, such as surgery, the teaching of communication skills may not be a priority. The objective of our study is to review literature in order to identify best practices and learning modalities used to teach surgery trainees the communication skills regarding delivery of difficult news to patients and family members. The criteria for inclusion in this literature review were that the study (1) addresses surgeons' training (nontechnical skills) in breaking difficult news to patient and/or families, (2) describes a teaching modality or intervention targeted to teach surgery residents how to deliver difficult news to patient/family, and (3) is published in English. Articles (n = 225) were screened for final eligibility. After discarding duplicates and noneligible studies, and after abstract/full-text review, 18 articles were included in the final analysis. Most studies are single site; address general surgery residents at varying training levels; and include case-specific, outpatient, and intensive care unit (ICU) settings. There is a paucity of studies in the trauma and unexpected death setting. There is a recent trend to use Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) both to teach and assess communication skills. Variable tools are used to assess this competency as described. Simulation and OSCE format have emerged as modalities of choice both to teach surgery residents how to deliver difficult news and to assess achievement of this competency. There is a gap in the literature regarding teaching and assessing surgery resident communication skills in delivering difficult news after unexpected events in the trauma and operating room settings.

The aim of this systematic review is to establish the best available evidence of the effectiveness of health literacy interventions on the informed consent process for health care users. The specific review question is:What is the effectiveness of health literacy interventions on health care users' informed consent to health procedures processes? Informed consent is a fundamental principal in the health care context which nowadays includes the patient's capacity to judge and to be involved in the decision making concerning their care that ensures that the care received reflects their goals, preferences and values. The importance of obtaining a valid consent before any medical procedure is well-established. In a US court case in 1914, it was stated that it is the right of any adult with the capability of making decisions concerning his own body, and that any surgical operation without the patient's consent could be considered as an assault. In another US court case, the court stated that it is a doctor's duty to make a reasonable disclosure to his patient of the nature, probable consequences and dangers of the proposed treatment to the patient. The application of the doctrine of informed consent as a legal procedure may slightly differ from country to country or from state to state, and may have different forms even within the same country. For example in the UK, consent can be written, verbal or non-verbal/implied, and a written consent form is not the actual consent itself but merely serves as evidence that consent has been given. If the elements of voluntariness, appropriate information and capacity have not been satisfied, a signed informed consent form will not make the consent valid. Nowadays it is widely accepted that prior to the application of any medical procedure, its benefits, risks and alternatives must have been explained to the patient, and the competent patient should have voluntarily and understandingly consented. Hence, the informed consent refers both to the health professional's obligation of information disclosure to the patient and to the quality of the patient's understanding and decision making. In other words, it does not refer to the single moment of the agreement, but to the whole complex process of gaining information, deciding and consenting. Several factors may restrict informed consent, including the patient's competence, provision of limited information, ineffective communication between patients and professionals, the hospital environment itself and privacy problems.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), people are increasingly urged to make choices for themselves or for their family members in regards to health care use. However, at the same time, inadequate or problematic health literacy skills have been reported in approximately half of the adult population in eight European countries. "Health literacy is linked to literacy and entails people's knowledge, motivation and competences to access, understand, appraise and apply health information in order to make judgments and take decisions in everyday life concerning health care, disease prevention and health promotion to maintain or improve quality of life during the life course". There are many instruments measuring either health literacy in general or some dimensions of health literacy (e.g. numeracy), health literacy related to specific issues (e.g. nutrition, diabetes) or health literacy of specific populations (e.g. adolescents). The diversity of existing instruments, which includes diversity in terms of scoring and ranges, makes the comparison of the results of different studies difficult. Index thresholds and ranges for different levels of health literacy for most tools were set based either on that of other well established health literacy instruments used in the same study, or on experts' assessments of the required health literacy scores. Adequate health literacy could be considered as the capacity of successfully completing most tasks required to function in the health care setting.Low or inadequate health literacy has been found to have several adverse effects on health and health care use: reduced ability to take medications properly and to interpret labels and health messages, poorer overall health status and higher risk of mortality in seniors, increased emergency department and hospital use, and decreased use of preventive interventions.Most studies examining the relationship between health literacy and informed consent conclude that patients with low health literacy are less likely to participate in decision making concerning their health care. According to a recent literature review, health care users' literacy, together with other factors, were found to be important determinants of a patient's capacity to provide fully informed consent. According to this review, 21 to 86% of the patients were able to recall the potential risks and complications of their medical procedure. This percentage may be even lower because most of the included studies referred to self-reported recall, which may be a flawed measure. According to the literature, much of the written material related to the informed consent is too difficult for health care users to understand. In addition, in their study, McCarthy et al. observed that during consultations, physicians spoke and used significantly more complex language than their patients, which may result in inappropriate communication for the patients, mainly for those with limited literacy. The situations described above may raise a number of critical legal and ethical problems. Health professionals, who shape the conditions of interactions with the patient, are responsible for adapting appropriate interventions, such as communication approaches that take into account patients' health literacy. These interventions could have a major contribution to the improvement of the informed consent process.Sheridan et al. conducted a systematic review on interventions designed to reduce the effects of limited health literacy in general. Some of the outcomes of the included studies were comprehension and behavioral intent, outcomes which could be strongly related to the informed consent process. Without making any distinction of the studies referring to the informed consent process, they conclude that several health literacy interventions, for example, adding video to narrative, could improve an individual's comprehension. Schenker et al. conducted a systematic review on the interventions to improve patient comprehension of medical and surgical procedures, including articles published until 2008. One of their conclusions was that, in most studies, while particular attention is needed for interventions provided to patients with limited literacy, the literacy of the patients was not addressed or assessed.Since then, many articles on health literacy and informed consent have been published. According to a recent review on best practices and new models of health literacy for informed consent, which includes papers published from 2004 to 2014, over half of the collected articles were published since 2010. This review, which is limited to literature within the US and its territories, and does not focus on the evaluation of the recommended practices in the literature, concludes that different tactics for simplifying written documents and clarifying verbal exchanges, and the use of multimedia formats and computerized exchanges might ameliorate constraints to health literate communications required for informed consent.Studies have evaluated the effectiveness of health literacy interventions which aim to improve the informed consent process. Improvement of the informed consent process may refer not only to the patients' comprehension but also, for example, to the recall of the information provided, to their intention to ask for clarifications, or to their satisfaction with the procedure. Interventions described and tested in the literature focus on the improvement of the print material, the process (e.g. the communication of the appropriate information) or both. Davis et al. conducted a randomized controlled trial to compare two polio vaccine pamphlets written at a sixth grade level - an international standardized pamphlet and an easy-to-read pamphlet - for the comprehension and preference among parents. Although the parents in the intervention group (N=304) achieved significantly higher comprehension than the control group (N=306) (65% vs 60%, p<0.005), the authors concluded that simplifying written material increases appeal but not the comprehension to an adequate level without use of instructional graphics. Similarly, Lorenzen et al. found that a reader friendly informed consent document to surgical procedures was more commonly read by the health care users as compared to the original consent document; however, no difference was found in terms of the participants' capacity to describe the procedure in their own words. Kang et al. evaluated recall and comprehension of orthodontic informed consent among pairs of children and their parents (N=90) applying three different informed consent procedures. According to this study, a combination of improving the readability of consent materials and the informed consent process (audio and visual cues) led to better recall for the patients and better recall and comprehension for their parents compared to an improved readability form or the usual informed consent form. Smith et al. used a randomized controlled trial to compare a decision aid (booklet and DVD) specifically designed for adults with low literacy skills (N=357) with a standard information booklet (N=173) on screening for bowel cancer. They found that the proportion of participants making an informed choice was 22% higher in the intervention group than in the control group (34% vs 12%, P<0.001). Matsuyama et al. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to: Evaluate the evidence regarding parental and child characteristics related to early-onset disordered eating. Eating disorders are rare in children, but disordered eating is common. Understanding the phenomenology of disordered eating in childhood can aid prevention of full-blown eating disorders. The purpose of this review is to systematically extract and synthesize the evidence on parental and child characteristics related to early-onset disordered eating. Systematic searches were conducted in PubMED/MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PsycInfo using the following search terms: eating disorder, disordered eating, problem eating, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, binge eating, child, preadolescent, and early onset. Studies published from 1990 to 2013 addressing parental and child characteristics of disordered eating in children aged 6 to 12 years were eligible for inclusion. The search was restricted to studies with cross-sectional, case-control, or longitudinal designs, studies in English, and with abstracts available. Forty-four studies fit these criteria. Most studies were based on community samples with a cross-sectional design. The included studies varied considerably in size, instruments used to assess early-onset disordered eating, and parental and child characteristics investigated. Important determinants included the following: higher body weight, previously reported disordered eating, body dissatisfaction, depression, parental disordered eating, and parental comments/concerns about child's weight and eating. The findings were inconsistent for sex, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, self-esteem/worth, and parental body weight. In conclusion, characteristics related to early-onset disordered eating have mainly been explored with a cross-sectional design. Full understanding of causal pathways will require good-quality longitudinal studies designed to address the influence of parental eating behaviors, mental and physical health, family interactions, and child growth patterns.

Accessibility is one of the most basic structural properties of an attitude and an important factor to consider in attitude strength. Despite its importance, relatively little work has examined the role of attitude accessibility in an inter-attitudinal context, particularly as it relates to the strength of related attitudes in the network. The present research examines accessibility as a property of one attitude (toward an abstract goal or end-state, that is, a value) that might influence the strength of a different but related attitude (toward a social policy conceptually related to the value). In Study 1, a highly accessible evaluative component of a value increased resistance to change of attitudes and behavioral intentions toward a social policy related to that value. Similarly, a manipulation of value accessibility (Studies 2 and 3) led to increased resistance of attitudes and behavioral intentions toward a social policy related to that value. Implications for the role of accessibility in inter-attitudinal strength are discussed.

Despite a growing interest in examining the effects of industry funding on research in plastic surgery, no study to date has comprehensively examined the effects of financial conflicts of interest on publication outcomes. The authors investigated the association between financial conflicts of interest and reported study findings in plastic surgery research. The authors reviewed all entries in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Annals of Plastic Surgery, and Journal of Plastic, Reconstructive & Aesthetic Surgery from January 1, 2012, to December 31, 2012. All clinical and basic science articles were analyzed. The following article characteristics were extracted: self-reported financial conflicts of interest, sample size, level of evidence, study design, and prospectiveness. The findings reported in each abstract were blindly graded as not applicable, negative, or positive. Of the 1650 abstracts that resulted from the authors' initial search, 568 fulfilled the inclusion criteria. The majority of the included articles covered breast (20.8 percent), experimental (19.7 percent), and general reconstruction (31.69 percent). Financial conflicts of interest were disclosed in only 17.6 percent of the articles. Of the total studies that met inclusion criteria, 66.2 percent were reviewed as having positive outcomes, and 33.8 percent were reviewed as having negative or not applicable results. Studies that disclosed a financial conflict of interest were 7.12 times more likely (p < 0.0001) to present a positive outcome over a negative outcome compared with studies with no financial conflict of interest. Investigators with a financial conflict of interest are significantly more likely to publish plastic surgery studies with a positive conclusion compared with investigators with no conflicts of interest.

There is controversy surrounding the impact of workplace interventions aimed at improving social support and supervisory quality on absenteeism, productivity and financial outcomes. To determine the value of social support interventions for work outcomes. Databases were searched for systematic reviews between 2000 and 2012 to complete a synthesis of systematic reviews guided by the PRISMA statement and the IOM guidelines for systematic reviews. Assessment of articles for inclusion and methodological quality was conducted independently by at least two researchers, with differences resolved by consensus. The search resulted in 3363 titles of which 3248 were excluded following title/abstract review, leaving 115 articles that were retrieved and underwent full article review. 10 articles met the set inclusion criteria, with 7 focusing on social support, 2 on supervisory quality and 1 on both. We found moderate and limited evidence, respectively, that social support and supervisory quality interventions positively impact workplace outcomes. There is moderate evidence that social support and limited evidence that supervisory quality interventions have a positive effect on work outcomes.

The aim of the study is to uncover and reveal how nurses as a profession and their working conditions are dramatized and portrayed in Swedish media narratives about the shortage of nurses. The media is an arena where stakeholders can air their views of the healthcare sector in general and the situation for nurses in particular. The focus in this study is the debate in Sweden on the shortage of nurses. Qualitative discursive study. A discourse analysis of media narratives about nurses and their working conditions published in several Swedish newspapers from 2009-2014. 1779 articles were included in the study. A selection (113 articles) of these articles was further analysed using a qualitative discursive psychological approach. Nurses are portrayed as being good, concerned about and critical of healthcare managers and politicians for not taking action. The accused actors justify their actions by partially accepting or displacing responsibility. The shortage of nurses is framed as a social problem - a threat to patients' safety. Seven different types of metaphorical expression frame the problem as inevitable, beyond control, abstract, an individual and collegial problem and nurses as replaceable. In addition, nurses and patients are dehumanized and no-one is held responsible. This study analyses the role of the media in emphasizing the seriousness or obscurity of the problem and possible solutions to it. Alternative narratives are needed to re-frame the nursing shortage and to find sustainable solutions.

To examine the associations between interpregnancy interval and later maternal cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Population-based record linkage study. New South Wales, Australia, 1994-2011. 216 467 women having first and second liveborn singleton infants, excluding those with an existing or pregnancy-related CVD risk factor. We linked birth records of mothers to the mothers' subsequent CVD (coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular events, and chronic heart failure) hospitalisation or death. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard regression was used to estimate adjusted hazard ratios (AHR) [95% confidence interval (CI)], accounting for maternal age, parity, socioeconomic status, and smoking during pregnancy. The first occurrence of a CVD hospitalisation or death after the second birth. In comparison with mothers with an interpregnancy interval of 18-23 months (reference category), the AHR among mothers with interpregnancy interval of <12 months was 1.56 (95% CI 1.18-2.07) and of 12-17 months was 1.13 (95% CI 0.84-1.51). The AHRs were 1.40 (95% CI 1.07-1.82), 1.87 (95% CI 1.21-2.89), and 3.41 (95% CI 1.07-10.91), corresponding to interpregnancy intervals of 24-59, 60-119, and ≥120 months, respectively. AHRs of specific CVD categories showed a similar pattern. Interpregnancy interval is associated with the risk of subsequent maternal CVD in a J-shaped fashion. The association is independent of the existing and pregnancy-related CVD risk factors analysed. Both short and long interpregnancy intervals can be used as risk markers to identify women with an elevated CVD risk later in life. Interpregnancy interval is associated with the risk of subsequent maternal cardiovascular disease in a J-shaped fashion.

The objective of this review is to synthesize the best available evidence on palliative care experiences of adult cancer patients from ethnocultural groups.More specifically, this systematic review seeks to answer the following questions:1. What are the palliative care experiences of adult cancer patients from diverse ethnocultural groups?2. What meanings do adult patients with cancer from diverse ethnocultural groups assign to their experiences with palliative care? Globally, over 20.4 million people need palliative care services annually. The majority of these people (19 million) are adults, with 34% of them being patients diagnosed with cancer. With the current increase in the aging population, especially in developed countries, the number of adults requiring palliative care is expected to rise. Furthermore, how palliative care is offered and received continues to be shaped by culture and ethnicity. Likewise, culture and ethnicity influence how palliative care patients experience diseases like cancer, and seek and utilize palliative care services. Also, healthcare providers sometimes find it challenging to address the palliative care needs of patients from different ethnocultural groups. Sometimes these challenges are believed to be due to cultural incompetence of the care provider. When palliative care patients and their providers differ in their perception of care needs and how to address them, negative palliative care experiences are likely to ensue. Therefore, as the demand for palliative care increases, and ethnocultural factors continue to affect palliation, it is important to gain a better understanding of palliative care experiences of patients from different ethnocultural groups.The terms culture and ethnicity have been defined and used differently in literature which sometimes lead to confusion. Ethnicity has been defined as distinctive shared origins or social backgrounds and traditions of a group of people that are maintained between generations and bring about a sense of identity that may encompass a common language and religion. Ethnicity is fluid and should not be confused with nationality or migration or race. In this review, we define ethnicity in relation to the self-identification of participants in studies that will be included in the review.Culture refers to patterns of explanatory models, beliefs, values and customs. These patterns may be informed and expressed in things like diet, clothing or rituals, or in the form of language and social or political systems. Culture may be fluid because of developments in people's lives. In light of the aforementioned definitions, and recognizing the inconsistency in how these terms are sometimes used, the authors of this review define ethnocultural patients, as described in papers to be reviewed, as those who belong to an ethnic group by way of involvement, attachment, self-labelling or attitude towards the group, and who share cultural traditions, ancestry, language, nationality or country of origin.Palliative care in the context of cancer focuses on the improvement of the quality of life of patients by addressing their physical, emotional and spiritual needs, and by supporting their families. Palliative care is often associated with supportive and hospice care. Supportive care emphasizes meeting patients' needs such as physical, mental, social, psychological, emotional and material needs from the period before diagnosis, during diagnosis, treatment to the follow-up period in the cancer trajectory. Hospice care in the context of cancer aims to relieve patients' pain and suffering, and improve their quality of life. Hospice care includes palliative care services and other services such as case management, respite care and bereavement care. Hospice care focuses on patients with terminal illness (i.e. with expected survival of less than six months) and their families. Moreover, hospice care is facilitated by a multidisciplinary team of physicians, nurses, social workers, chaplains, home health aides and volunteers.Palliative care needs for cancer patients are numerous and may include needs related to activities of daily living, communication, sexuality, physical needs, psychological needs, fear, spiritual wellbeing, socioeconomic aspects and insufficiency of information. Cancer patients often report of suffering, pain and being in constant need of support. In dealing with their suffering, some patients seek internal motivation by looking at the disease as a life challenge. Other patients turn to external sources of motivation like religion, or peer and family support groups.Patients from different ethnocultural groups report similar as well as dissimilar palliative care needs and experiences. With respect to similarities, a study from the United States found that African American and Caucasian patients alike valued practical assistance from social groups. Participants from both ethnocultural groups valued friends and families that listened to their cancer-related concerns. Similarly, Turkish and Moroccan patients in a study conducted in Netherlands valued friends and family members that were there for them. Additionally, participants particularly of African American descent treasured positive attitudes from people around them and valued support from religion and faith communities. These sentiments are echoed in a palliative care study conducted in the United Kingdom. In the UK study, Caribbean Blacks and British White patients appreciated the significance of social networks and partner or spousal support in their cancer trajectory.In regards to unsupportive palliative care experiences, authors of the United States study report that African Americans and Caucasians had more similarities than differences. Firstly, both ethnocultural groups shared experiences of losing association with family and close friends after they learnt of the patients' diagnosis. These sentiments were also reported by Danish-born and immigrant patients in a study by Kristiansen and colleagues. Secondly, both African American and Caucasian patients felt responsible for the emotional wellbeing of their loved ones.When it comes to differences in palliative care needs and experiences, Grange and colleagues report that African American and Caucasian participants valued provision of housing which included daily patient care. Participants treasured the opportunity to either move or have family members move in and live with them. However, more African American than Caucasian participants had experiences of moving in with a family member. Important differences in unsupportive palliative care were also reported. Although both African Americans and Caucasians lost friends and family members following knowledge of the cancer diagnoses, more African Americans than Caucasians were likely to report losing friendship. Additionally, African Americans experienced diminished independence mainly because of overprotection from family and friends. Diminishing independence is echoed in the Dutch study involving Turkish and Moroccan patients. However, in the Dutch study, healthcare providers appeared to advocate for patients' independence which contradicted with the value placed by family members in protecting their loved one.In another American study, Latina women desired health-related information more often than their Caucasian American counterparts. The need for information by Latina women was irrespective of their socio-demographic factors, including level of education.The aforementioned similarities and differences in palliative care experiences call for further exploration of ethnocultural palliative care patients' experiences. A better understanding of their experiences will create avenues for finding better ways of providing palliative care, preventing psychological distress and improving quality of life and death.Understanding ethnocultural issues is important because the unique characteristics of ethnocultural groups often inform approaches to palliative care. Ethnocultural meanings of illness, suffering and dying define the theoretical underpinnings that patients and healthcare providers draw upon in their relations. Furthermore, Baker suggests that the provision and receipt of palliative care is more related to culture or ethnicity than to age, education, socioeconomic status or other variables. Moreover, culture affects communication, decision-making, response to symptoms, treatment choices and emotional expression at the end of life.Palliative care patients often regard recommendations from healthcare providers as very useful. Similarly, healthcare providers may find ethnocultural knowledge beneficial in the provision of palliative care. When ethnocultural knowledge is lacking, healthcare providers, especially those with minimal training on ethnocultural issues, may provide unsatisfactory palliative care. Similarly, when ethnocultural differences are overlooked or inadequately addressed, inferior care often occurs. Inferior care which may involve inequality in utilization of and access to palliative care services, pain and symptom management and location of death, is especially disturbing when adequate palliative care resources exist in some health institutions.Although qualitative and quantitative research has been conducted in this area, no systematic review compiling findings on ethnocultural patients' experiences of palliative care has been conducted or is underway as per the Joanna Briggs Institute Database of Systematic Reviews and Implementation Reports, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews or PROSPERO. The purpose of this systematic review is to summarize findings of qualitative studies that focus on ethnocultural patients' experience of palliative care. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

The objective of this systematic review is to synthesize the eligible evidence of patients' experience of engaging and interacting with nurses, in the medical-surgical ward setting.This review will consider the following questions: Communication is a way in which humans make sense of the world around them. Communication takes place as an interactive two-way process or interaction, involving two or more people and can occur by nonverbal, verbal, face-to-face or non-face-to-face methods. Effective communication is described to occur when the sender of a message sends their message in a way that conveys the intent of their message and then is understood by the receiver of the message. As a result of the communication from both the sender and the receiver of the message a shared meaning is created between both parties.Communication can therefore be viewed as a reciprocal process. In the health care literature the terms communication and interaction are used interchangeably.Communication failures between clinicians are the most common primary cause of errors and adverse events in health care. Communication is a significant factor in patient satisfaction and complaints about care. Communication plays an integral role in service quality in all service professions including health care professions.Within healthcare, quality care has been defined by the Institute of Medicine as 'care that is safe, effective, timely, efficient, equitable and patient-centred'. Patient-centered care is defined as 'care that is respectful of and responsive to individual patient preferences, needs and values, and ensuring that patient's values guide all clinical decisions. Patient centered-care encompasses the 'individual experiences of a patient, the clinical service, the organizational and the regulatory levels of health care'. At the individual patient level, patient-centered care is care that is 'provided in a respectful manner, assures open and ongoing sharing of useful information in an ongoing manner and supports and encourages the participation of patients and their families'. Healthcare organizations that are patient-centered engage patients as partners and hold human interactions as a pillar of their service.The deepening evidence base for principles and practice of patient-centered care has resulted in increasing recognition of, and greater focus on, the engagement of patients, and the value and benefit of patient engagement. Contemporary healthcare policy across the globe increasingly supports the engagement of patients as partners in all aspects of their own health care and also in systemic quality improvement. In 2005, the World Health Organization's (WHO) World Alliance for Patient Safety established the Patients for Patient Safety program, to improve patient safety globally in collaboration with patient advocates across the world. As a global initiative, Patients for Patient Safety 'believes that safety will be improved if patients are placed at the center of care and included as full partners'.In 2011 the United States of America Department of Health and Human Services announced its commitment of one billion US dollars of federal funding under The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 2010 and launched the Partnership for Patients initiative. The Partnership for Patients public-private consortium, which focuses on patient safety improvements and draws membership from federal government agencies and over 8000 health care providing organizations and individuals, views patients 'as essential partners in improving safety and quality' and 'their participation as active members of their own healthcare team is an essential component of making healthcare safer and reducing readmission'.In Australia, as part of national health care reforms to improve access to care, the efficiency of care and public transparency of the performance and funding of health services, the Australian Health Ministers endorsed the 10 National Safety and Quality Health Service Standards (NSQHSS) in 2011 and the Australian Safety and Quality Goals for Health Care (The Goals) in 2012. The NSQHSS focus on partnerships with health consumers in their own care and treatment and also in health service planning, the design of care and service monitoring and evaluation. Standard 1 - Governance for Safety and Quality, and Standard 2 - Partnering with Consumers, are required to be integrated within all of the other eight Standards.With patient safety and quality being core to the delivery of care the Safety of Care, Appropriateness of Care and Partnering with Consumers goals have been identified as the three areas that will make up the goals over the next five years until 2017. The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care, in providing further justification for the focus on these three areas, states:The third priority area of The Goals, Partnering with Consumers, reflects patient-centered care practice by ensuring 'that there are effective partnerships between consumers and healthcare providers and organizations at all levels of healthcare provision, planning and evaluation'. Specifically, 'Consumers and healthcare providers understand each other when communicating about care and treatment and health care organizations are health literate organizations''.As healthcare focuses on providing services that are patient-centered and methods to ensure this occurs, patients' voice and experience of health care provision is increasingly being sought from an organizational quality improvement perspective. Patients are being surveyed on their healthcare experience across interpersonal areas such as being provided the opportunity by their health professional to ask questions, the level of involvement in their own care and whether they were shown courtesy, treated with respect and listened to carefully by their health professional.Surveys of patients' satisfaction with their care are now being superseded by surveys of patient experiences of care. However, current methods used to collect and use information from patients about their care is often retrospective, provides inadequate real time data and is not effective in creating action to produce change at the individual patient level. Methods which focus on including the patient and their information in real-time are considered by many to be crucial to the advancement of improved health outcomes and the reduced costs that are required of health care to be sustainable. One such method is patient-centered communication.The nurse-patient interaction is a core component of nursing science and high quality nursing care. Fleisher et al. contend that 'the main intention of communication and interaction, in the health setting, is to influence the patient's health status or state of well-being'. As a profession, nursing predominately requires communicating with, and relating to, patients at the individual level. In the hospital setting nurses undertake many of their patient related duties in a face-to-face manner with the patient at the bedside and these moments can facilitate effective interaction to occur between the nurse and the patient, which is patient-centered. McCabe et al. state that patient-centered communication as "defined by Langewitz et al. as 'communication that invites and encourages the patient to participate and negotiate in decision-making regarding their own care'.''However, qualitative studies by McCabe and Wellard et al, highlighted that nurses interact with patients only when performing administrative or functional activities and nursing 'practice was predominately task-orientated'. The outcome of these studies are supported by Maurer et al. in their report on the tools and strategies available to support patient and family engagement in the hospital setting. Maurer et al. identified that current strategies 'are not attuned to patient and family member experiences of hospitalization' and that most tools and strategies were 'more reflective of health professional and hospital views and the organization of their work'. The report identified a gap in the initiation of engagement, which is not driven by the patients and families' needs and preferences as they occur but by the 'opportunities that the hospital makes available'.McCabe et al. also argue that nurses' attending behavior, that is their 'accessibility and readiness to listen to patients through the use of non-verbal communication' requires that they have the underpinning elements of 'genuineness, warmth and empathy' all of which are components of patient-centered communication. McCabe et al. observed that 'that nurses do not always communicate in a patient-centered way'.According to Fleischer et al. 'The listening behavior in the way of listening and asking actually is the beginning of the nurse-patient communication relationship' McCabe et al. state that the lack of recognition and support by healthcare organizations of the connection and subsequent importance of patient-centered communication in the provision of high quality care has promulgated a culture averse to patient centered communication and is a significant factor in reducing the value that nurses place on providing patient-centered communication to patients.It is apparent that tensions exist between service quality and patient-centered care principles and practice. The impact of this tension on care and the patient as an individual is reflected in the literature. McCabe et al. claim that the use of non-patient-centered types of communication can negatively affect a patient's sense of well-being and security. Horvey et al. detail patient and family member experiences of not being listened to by their health care providers and describe the resulting consequences to be as severe as the death of the patient during their hospital stay. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

Nitrate contamination of groundwater has become an environmental problem of widespread concern in China. We collected 899 groundwater samples from a rapidly urbanized area, in order to identify the main sources and driving mechanisms of groundwater nitrate contamination. The results showed that the land use has a significant effect on groundwater nitrate concentration (P<0.001). Landfill leakage was an important source of nitrate in groundwater in the PRD (Pearl River Delta) region, since landfill yielded the highest nitrate concentration (38.14 mg/L) and the highest ratio of exceeded standard (42.50%). In this study, the driving mechanism of groundwater nitrate contamination was determined to be urban construction and the secondary and tertiary industrial development, and population growth. This study revealed that domestic wastewater and industrial wastewater were the main sources of groundwater nitrate pollution. Therefore, the priority method for relieving groundwater nitrate contamination is to control the random discharge of domestic and industrial wastewater in regions undergoing rapid urbanization. Capsule abstract. The main driving mechanism of groundwater nitrate contamination was determined to be urban construction and the secondary and tertiary industrial development, and population growth.

This review examines evidence relevant to the effect of hormonal contraception on breastfeeding; and compares global and US recommendations for contraceptive initiation and use. Breastfeeding and use of postpartum contraception have high public health priority, making research in this area critical for optimizing guidance. High quality evidence remains limited with only a small number of well-conducted randomized controlled trials of hormonal methods and breastfeeding/neonatal growth outcomes. More evidence supports early initiation of progestin-only methods. Evidence on early initiation of combination hormonal methods is sparse. The WHO Medical Eligibility Criteria (MEC) differs from that of the US MEC. Generally, the WHO MEC is more restrictive, reflecting the potential greater impact on maternal child health if there is a negative impact from hormonal contraception on breastfeeding. Only well conducted clinical trials will further elucidate such an impact. http://links.lww.com/COG/A15.

This article proposes a theoretical framework on the role of pharmaceuticals in transforming perspectives and shaping contemporary subjectivities. It outlines the significant role drugs play in three fundamental processes of social transformation in Western societies: medicalisation, molecularisation and biosocialisation. Indeed, drugs can be envisaged as major devices of a pharmaceutical regime, which is more akin to the notion of dispositif, as used by Foucault, than to the sole result of high-level scheming by powerful economic interests, a notion which informs a significant share of the literature. Medications serve as a key vector of the transformation of perspective (or gaze) that characterises medicalisation, molecularisation and biosocialisation, by shifting our view on health, nature and identity from a categorical to a dimensional framework. Hence, central to this thesis is that the same underlying mechanism is at work. Indeed, in all three processes there is an evolving polarity between two antinomic categories, the positions of which are constantly being redefined by the various uses of drugs. Due to their concreteness, the fluidity of their use and the plasticity of the identities they authorise, drugs colonise all areas of contemporary social experiences, far beyond the medical sphere. A video abstract of this article can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=djIBY7DHKW4&feature=youtu.be.

Modelling cultural ecosystem services is challenging as they often involve subjective and intangible concepts. As a consequence they have been neglected in ecosystem service studies, something that needs remedying if environmental decision making is to be truly holistic. We suggest Bayesian Networks (BNs) have a number of qualities that may make them well-suited for dealing with cultural services. For example, they define relationships between variables probabilistically, enabling conceptual and physical variables to be linked, and therefore the numerical representation of stakeholder opinions. We assess whether BNs are a good method for modelling cultural services by building one collaboratively with canoeists to predict how the subjective concepts of fun and danger are impacted on by weir modification. The BN successfully captured the relationships between the variables, with model output being broadly consistent with verbal descriptions by the canoeists. There were however a number of discrepancies indicating imperfect knowledge capture. This is likely due to the structure of the network and the abstract and laborious nature of the probability elicitation stage. New techniques should be developed to increase the intuitiveness and efficiency of probability elicitation. The limitations we identified with BNs are avoided if their structure can be kept simple, and it is in such circumstances that BNs can offer a good method for modelling cultural ecosystem services.

To estimate the prevalence of alcohol consumption during pregnancy and while breastfeeding in Canada from 2003 to 2010, and to test the relation between self-perceived mental health status and alcohol consumption during pregnancy and while breastfeeding. Secondary analysis of four cycles of the Canadian Community Health Survey, a population-based cross-sectional survey. Canada. A total of 18 612 pregnant and 15 836 breastfeeding women. The prevalence of alcohol consumption during pregnancy and while breastfeeding and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated by province and territory, and cycle. The relation between self-perceived mental health status and alcohol consumption during pregnancy and while breastfeeding was explored using quasi-Poisson regression models. Alcohol consumption during pregnancy and while breastfeeding, and self-perceived mental health status. In Canada, between 2003 and 2010, approximately one in every ten pregnant women (9.9%; 95%CI 9.2-10.5%) and two in every ten breastfeeding women (20.3%; 95%CI 19.4-21.2%) women consumed alcohol. Women with a lower self-perceived mental health status (i.e. 'good') were 1.40 (95%CI 1.18-1.67, P < 0.001) times more likely to have consumed alcohol during pregnancy, compared with women with an 'excellent' self-perceived mental health. There were no notable differences between the categories of mental health status in regard to alcohol consumption while breastfeeding. Despite public health efforts in Canada, a significant proportion of pregnant and breastfeeding women consume alcohol. It is imperative that a standard screening protocol be initiated among pregnant and breastfeeding women, especially in high-risk populations (e.g. women utilising substance abuse treatment programs). In Canada in 2003-2010, approximately 10% of pregnant and 20% of breastfeeding women consumed alcohol.

To identify how the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) environment potentially influences the microbiome high-risk term and preterm infants. Electronic databases utilized to identify studies published in English included PubMed, Google Scholar, Cumulative Index for Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and BioMedSearcher. Date of publication did not limit inclusion in the review. Two hundred fifty articles were assessed for relevance to the research question through title and abstract review. Further screening resulted in full review of 60 articles. An in-depth review of all 60 articles resulted in 39 articles that met inclusion criteria. Twenty-eight articles were eliminated on the basis of the type of study and subject of interest. Studies were reviewed for information related to environmental factors that influence microbial colonization of the neonatal microbiome. Environment was later defined as the physical environment of the NICU and nursery caregiving activities. Studies were characterized into factors that impacted the infant's microbiome—parental skin, feeding type, environmental surfaces and caregiving equipment, health care provider skin, and antibiotic use. Literature revealed that various aspects of living within the NICU environment do influence the microbiome of infants. Caregivers can implement strategies to prevent environment-associated nosocomial infection in the NICU such as implementing infection control measures, encouraging use of breast milk, and decreasing the empirical use of antibiotics.

Although women who use substances are often also facing severe economic and social problems, little is known about the relationship between social determinants of health and substance use among women. Furthermore, despite their increased visibility in substance use programs and policies in Canada, little is known about the social contexts of substance use among Aboriginal women. I systematically reviewed empirical research published from 1997 through March 2013 that examined the relationship between social determinants of health and substance use among Aboriginal women. Studies that were peer-reviewed, published in English, and had an abstract were included. Of an initial 261 studies, only sixteen studies met the inclusion criteria (fourteen quantitative, one qualitative, one mixed methods). The social determinants of health that were explored in these studies were socio-demographics factors, trauma, gender, social environments, colonialism, culture, and employment. The studies identified significant relationships between the social determinants of health and substance use among Aboriginal women. The almost exclusive use of quantitative methods and the prioritization of certain social determinants of health over others prevented a comprehensive and contextual understanding of substance use among Aboriginal women. Further research is needed to understand these significant relationships, particularly in relation to Aboriginal-specific determinants of health.

Subjective social status (SSS), a person's sense of their (or for youth, abstract their family's) position in the socioeconomic hierarchy, is strongly related to health in adults but not health in adolescence. Understanding this developmental discrepancy requires first understanding the developmental trajectory of SSS. The objective of this study was to identify the number and shape of SSS trajectories as adolescents transition to adulthood and explore if trajectory membership affects health. Using data from 7436 assessments from the Princeton School District Study, a decade long cohort study of non-Hispanic black and white youth, latent class growth models with 3 to 7 SSS trajectories were developed. Model fit, trajectory structure, and shape were used to guide optimal model selection. Using this optimal model, the associations of trajectory membership with BMI and depressive symptoms in young adulthood were explored. The 5-class model was optimal. In this model, trajectories were persistent high (7.8%),mid–high (32.2%), middle (43.4%), low–lower (7.4%), and high–low (9.1%). Non-Hispanic black race/ethnicity, lower household income, and low parent education were associated with membership in this high–low trajectory. High–low trajectory membership was associated with higher BMI and depressive symptoms in non-Hispanic white subjects but was not associated with depressive symptoms. It was associated with lower BMI only after adjustment for BMI in adolescence in non-Hispanic black subjects. SSS is relatively stable in adolescence and the transition to adulthood, and it generally reflects objective markers of social advantage. However, socially disadvantaged youth with high SSS in early adolescence may be at increased health risk.

According to the Social Information Processing Model of children's adjustment, children develop general interpretation styles for future social events based on past social experiences. Previous research has shown associations between interpretations of social situations and internalizing and externalizing symptoms. This study investigated whether bullies, victims, bully-victims, and uninvolved children interpreted ambiguous human interactions differently in terms of bullying and whether these interpretations generalized to abstract non-human interactions. Participants were 390 children (49% girls, Mage  = 10.3 years) who completed self-report measures of bullying and victimization. In addition, they indicated whether video fragments of positive, negative, or ambiguous interactions between humans, animals, and abstract figures depicted bullying situations. Bully-victims reported more bullying than victims and uninvolved children in ambiguous abstract figure, animal, and human fragments and in positive animal fragments. Children who bully did not differ from the other groups. These findings indicate that interpretations of bullying generalized from ambiguous human interactions to more abstract ambiguous animal and abstract figure interactions. Implications for further research and practice were discussed.

With changing conditions affecting receipt of postabortion care, an updated estimate of the incidence of treatment for complications from unsafe pregnancy termination is needed to inform policies and programmes. National estimates of facility-based treatment for complications in 26 countries form the basis for estimating treatment rates in the developing world. An estimated seven million women were treated in the developing world for complications from unsafe pregnancy termination in 2012, a rate of 6.9 per 1000 women aged 15-44 years. Regionally, rates ranged from 5.3 in Latin America and the Caribbean to 8.2 in Asia. Results inform policies to improve women's health. An estimated 7 million women were treated in the developing world for complications of unsafe TOP in 2012.

In a stepped wedge, cluster randomised trial, clusters receive the intervention at different time points, and the order in which they received it is randomised. Previous systematic reviews of stepped wedge trials have documented a steady rise in their use between 1987 and 2010, which was attributed to the design's perceived logistical and analytical advantages. However, the interventions included in these systematic reviews were often poorly reported and did not adequately describe the analysis and/or methodology used. Since 2010, a number of additional stepped wedge trials have been published. This article aims to update previous systematic reviews, and consider what interventions were tested and the rationale given for using a stepped wedge design. We searched PubMed, PsychINFO, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), the Web of Science, the Cochrane Library and the Current Controlled Trials Register for articles published between January 2010 and May 2014. We considered stepped wedge randomised controlled trials in all fields of research. We independently extracted data from retrieved articles and reviewed them. Interventions were then coded using the functions specified by the Behaviour Change Wheel, and for behaviour change techniques using a validated taxonomy. Our review identified 37 stepped wedge trials, reported in 10 articles presenting trial results, one conference abstract, 21 protocol or study design articles and five trial registrations. These were mostly conducted in developed countries (n = 30), and within healthcare organisations (n = 28). A total of 33 of the interventions were educationally based, with the most commonly used behaviour change techniques being 'instruction on how to perform a behaviour' (n = 32) and 'persuasive source' (n = 25). Authors gave a wide range of reasons for the use of the stepped wedge trial design, including ethical considerations, logistical, financial and methodological. The adequacy of reporting varied across studies: many did not provide sufficient detail regarding the methodology or calculation of the required sample size. The popularity of stepped wedge trials has increased since 2010, predominantly in high-income countries. However, there is a need for further guidance on their reporting and analysis.

As governments around the world prepare to adopt a new development framework and supportive financial flows, the OECD Development Assistance Committee is exploring new ways of measuring and reporting on resource flows enabling development, including population assistance. These changes will affect the evidence base, discourse about and donor incentives related to sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR). They may lead to: i) reduction of grant aid in favour of instruments that are less suitable for SRHR, like loans and market-like instruments; ii) expansion of the range of development stakeholders to include those with market power that can steer the discussion away from the needs of the most under-served populations; and iii) diversion of attention and resources away from SRHR. The discourse over how to provide, incentivize and report on development assistance in the new framework demonstrates the crucial relationship between knowledge, evidence, practice and power in relation to funding for SRHR in developing countries. With all that is at stake, although the OECD debate on the future of the development finance measurement system may seem highly abstract, this is a high-stakes game that SRHR advocates need to have a hand in. Those who seek to improve SRHR are well served to engage in these discussions as early and often as possible before the momentous decisions over the coming months.

The question of a sensitive period in language acquisition has been subject to extensive research and debate for more than half a century. While it has been well established that the ability to learn new languages declines in early years, the extent to which this outcome depends on biological maturation in contrast to previously acquired knowledge remains disputed. In the present study, we addressed this question by examining phonetic discriminatory abilities in early second language (L2) speakers of Swedish, who had either maintained their first language (L1) (immigrants) or had lost it (international adoptees), using native speaker controls. Through this design, we sought to disentangle the effects of the maturational state of the learner on L2 development from the effects of L1 interference: if additional language development is indeed constrained by an interfering L1, then adoptees should outperform immigrant speakers. The results of an auditory lexical decision task, in which fine vowel distinctions in Swedish had been modified, showed, however, no difference between the L2 groups. Instead, both L2 groups scored significantly lower than the native speaker group. The three groups did not differ in their ability to discriminate non-modified words. These findings demonstrate that L1 loss is not a crucial condition for successfully acquiring an L2, which in turn is taken as support for a maturational constraints view on L2 acquisition. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at: https://youtu.be/1J9X50aePeU.

Manuscript abstracts represent a critical source of information for oncology practitioners. Practitioners may utilize the information contained in abstracts as a basis for treatment decisions particularly when full-text articles are not accessible. In 2007, the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) extension statement for abstracts provided a minimum list of elements that should be included in abstracts. In this study we evaluate the degree of adherence to these recommendations and accessibility of full text publications in oncology publications. A systematic review of abstracts of randomized, controlled, phase III trials in metastatic solid malignancies published between January 2009 and December 2011 in PubMed, Medline, and Embase was completed. Abstracts were assigned a completeness score of 0-18 based on the number of CONSORT-recommended elements. Accessibility through open access was recorded. 174 abstracts with data for 95,956 patients were reviewed. The median completeness score was 9 (range, 3-17). Open access to full text articles was available for 80 % of abstracts. The remaining 20 % (35 out of 174) had a median cost of 38 USD (range: $22-49.95). The least frequently reported elements were: trial design description (20 %), participant allocation method (13 %), blinding (24 %), trial enrollment status (22 %), registration and name of trial (26 %) and funding source (18 %). The most frequently reported elements were eligibility criteria (98 %), study interventions (100 %), and primary endpoint (87 %). There is poor adherence to the CONSORT recommendations for abstract reporting in publications of randomized cancer clinical trials which could negatively impact clinical decision-making. Full-text articles are frequently available through open access.

The growing consensus espousing the use of shared decision making (SDM) in cancer treatment has coincided with the rise of health care evaluation paradigms that emphasize quality of life (QOL) as a central outcome measure. This review systematically examines the association between treatment SDM and QOL outcomes in cancer. A range of bibliographic databases and gray literature sources was searched. The search retrieved 16,726 records, which were screened by title, abstract, and full text to identify relevant studies. The review included 17 studies with a range of study designs and populations. Data were extracted on study methods, participants, setting, study or intervention description, outcomes, main findings, secondary findings, and limitations. Quality appraisal was used, in conjunction with a narrative approach, to synthesize the evidence. The review found weak, but suggestive, evidence for a positive association between perceived patient involvement in decision making, a central dimension of SDM, and QOL outcomes in cancer. The review did not find evidence for an inverse association between SDM and QOL. The poor methodological quality and heterogeneity of the extant literature constrained the derived conclusions. In addition, the literature commonly treated various subscales of QOL instruments as separate outcomes, increasing the probability of spurious findings. There is weak evidence that aspects of shared decision-making approaches are positively associated with QOL outcomes and very little evidence of a negative association. The extant literature largely assessed patient involvement, only capturing one aspect of the shared decision-making construct, and is of poor quality, necessitating robust studies examining the association.

Unhealthy food choices follow a socioeconomic gradient that may partly be explained by one's 'cultural capital', as defined by Bourdieu. We aim 1) to carry out a systematic review to identify existing quantitative measures of cultural capital, 2) to develop a questionnaire to measure cultural capital for food choices, and 3) to empirically test associations of socioeconomic position with cultural capital and food choices, and of cultural capital with food choices. We systematically searched large databases for the key-word 'cultural capital' in title or abstract. Indicators of objectivised cultural capital and family institutionalised cultural capital, as identified by the review, were translated to food choice relevant indicators. For incorporated cultural capital, we used existing questionnaires that measured the concepts underlying the variety of indicators as identified by the review, i.e. participation, skills, knowledge, values. The questionnaire was empirically tested in a postal survey completed by 2,953 adults participating in the GLOBE cohort study, The Netherlands, in 2011. The review yielded 113 studies that fulfilled our inclusion criteria. Several indicators of family institutionalised (e.g. parents' education completed) and objectivised cultural capital (e.g. possession of books, art) were consistently used. Incorporated cultural capital was measured with a large variety of indicators (e.g. cultural participation, skills). Based on this, we developed a questionnaire to measure cultural capital in relation to food choices. An empirical test of the questionnaire showed acceptable overall internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha of .654; 56 items), and positive associations between socioeconomic position and cultural capital, and between cultural capital and healthy food choices. Cultural capital may be a promising determinant for (socioeconomic inequalities in) food choices.

Although full-text articles are provided by the publishers in electronic formats, it remains a challenge to find related work beyond the title and abstract context. Identifying related articles based on their abstract is indeed a good starting point; this process is straightforward and does not consume as many resources as full-text based similarity would require. However, further analyses may require in-depth understanding of the full content. Two articles with highly related abstracts can be substantially different regarding the full content. How similarity differs when considering title-and-abstract versus full-text and which semantic similarity metric provides better results when dealing with full-text articles are the main issues addressed in this manuscript. We have benchmarked three similarity metrics - BM25, PMRA, and Cosine, in order to determine which one performs best when using concept-based annotations on full-text documents. We also evaluated variations in similarity values based on title-and-abstract against those relying on full-text. Our test dataset comprises the Genomics track article collection from the 2005 Text Retrieval Conference. Initially, we used an entity recognition software to semantically annotate titles and abstracts as well as full-text with concepts defined in the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS®). For each article, we created a document profile, i.e., a set of identified concepts, term frequency, and inverse document frequency; we then applied various similarity metrics to those document profiles. We considered correlation, precision, recall, and F1 in order to determine which similarity metric performs best with concept-based annotations. For those full-text articles available in PubMed Central Open Access (PMC-OA), we also performed dispersion analyses in order to understand how similarity varies when considering full-text articles. We have found that the PubMed Related Articles similarity metric is the most suitable for full-text articles annotated with UMLS concepts. For similarity values above 0.8, all metrics exhibited an F1 around 0.2 and a recall around 0.1; BM25 showed the highest precision close to 1; in all cases the concept-based metrics performed better than the word-stem-based one. Our experiments show that similarity values vary when considering only title-and-abstract versus full-text similarity. Therefore, analyses based on full-text become useful when a given research requires going beyond title and abstract, particularly regarding connectivity across articles. Visualization available at ljgarcia.github.io/semsim.benchmark/, data available at http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.13323.

Poison centers advance knowledge in the field of toxicology through publication in peer-review journals. This investigation describes the pattern of poison center-related publications. Cases were poison center-related research published in peer-review journals during 1995-2014. These were identified through searching the PubMed database, reviewing the tables of contents of selected toxicology journals, and reviewing abstracts of various national and international meetings. The following variables for each publication were identified: year of publication, journal, type of publication (meeting abstract vs. other, i.e. full article or letter to the editor), and the country(ies) of the poison center(s) included in the research. Of the 3147 total publications, 62.1% were meeting abstracts. There were 263 publications in 1995-1999, 536 in 2000-2004, 999 in 2005-2009, and 1349 in 2010-2014. The publications were in 234 different journals. The journals in which the highest number of research was published were Clinical Toxicology (69.7%), Journal of Medical Toxicology (2.2%), and Veterinary and Human Toxicology (2.1%). The research was reported from 62 different countries. The countries with the highest number of publications were the United States (67.9%), United Kingdom (6.5%), Germany (3.9%), France (2.5%), and Italy (2.4%). The number of publications increased greatly over the 20 years. Although the publications were in a large number of journals, a high proportion of the publications were in one journal. While the research came from a large number of countries, the preponderance came from the United States.

Hispanic Americans use prescription medications at markedly lower rates than do non-Hispanic whites. At the same time, Hispanics are the largest racial-ethnic minority in the USA. In a recent effort to reach this underdeveloped market, the pharmaceutical industry has begun to create Spanish-language direct-to-consumer advertising (DTCA) campaigns. The substantive content of these campaigns is being tailored to appeal to the purported cultural values, beliefs and identities of Latino consumers. We compare English-language and Spanish-language television commercials for two prescription medications. We highlight the importance of selling medicine to a medically under-served population as a key marketing element of Latino-targeted DTCA. We define selling medicine as the pharmaceutical industry's explicit promotion of medicine's cultural authority as a means of expanding its markets and profits. We reflect on the prospects of this development in terms of promoting medicalisation in a US subgroup that has heretofore eluded the pharmaceutical industry's marketing influence. Our analysis draws on Nikolas Rose's insights concerning variations in the degree to which certain groups of people are more medically made up than others, by reflecting on the racial and ethnic character of medicalisation in the USA and the role DTCA plays in shaping medicalisation trends. A video abstract of this article can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZabCle9-jHw&feature=youtu.be.

Mentally disordered offenders are a group of service users who experience substantial amounts of control and supervision. This article uses theories of social control to analyse the way in which mechanisms of control are understood by this group. Semi-structured interviews with mentally disordered offenders in England who were subject to a restriction order under the Mental Health Act 1983 (as amended by the Mental Health Act 2007) provided the empirical basis for this study. The offenders had a number of perspectives on the restriction order. Firstly, it was seen as a mechanism for identifying those suffering from a mental disorder and for providing appropriate treatment. Secondly, the restriction order was viewed as a form of disciplinary control through which societal norms might be internalised. Thirdly, it was seen as labelling offenders in a manner that was experienced as limiting and oppressive. A number of research participants were aware that the order acted to limit staff actions. These participants saw the order as a means by which they might shape the support that they received in order to further their own aims.A video abstract of this article can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwIwDI2sOTY&feature=youtu.be.

The purpose of this study was to find out the rate of peer-reviewed publication of full papers of abstracts presented at the annual meeting of the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Society of Turkey, and to identify the time taken for publication, subspecialty, and study design. All abstracts accepted for presentation at the meetings in 2007-12 were identified from the books of abstracts, and evidence of publication was sought from PubMed and Google Scholar. The following variables were evaluated: publication rate, type of presentation (oral or poster), time to publication, subspecialty, study design, name of the journal in which the paper was published, impact factor of the journal, author affiliation, change in number of authors and origin of the study. A total of 1322 abstracts were presented between 2007 and 2012. Of these, 246 (19%) were subsequently published in peer-reviewed journals, including 110/390 oral presentations (28%) and 136/932 poster presentations (15%). Oral presentations were more likely to be published than poster presentations (p=0.000). The mean (SD) time from presentation to publication was 17 (15) months. Anatomical presentations had the highest publication rate (8/11), whereas orthognathic surgery had the lowest (5/67, 7%). Technical notes (5/9) and animal studies (32/70, 46%) were the most common types of publication. Only 246 of the 1322 abstracts (19%) were subsequently published as full papers, which is lower than previously reported in oral and maxillofacial surgery.

'Mapping' onto generic preference-based outcome measures is increasingly being used as a means of generating health utilities for use within health economic evaluations. Despite publication of technical guides for the conduct of mapping research, guidance for the reporting of mapping studies is currently lacking. The MAPS (MApping onto Preference-based measures reporting Standards) statement is a new checklist, which aims to promote complete and transparent reporting of mapping studies. The primary audiences for the MAPS statement are researchers reporting mapping studies, the funders of the research, and peer reviewers and editors involved in assessing mapping studies for publication.A de novo list of 29 candidate reporting items and accompanying explanations was created by a working group comprised of six health economists and one Delphi methodologist. Following a two-round, modified Delphi survey with representatives from academia, consultancy, health technology assessment agencies and the biomedical journal editorial community, a final set of 23 items deemed essential for transparent reporting, and accompanying explanations, was developed. The items are contained in a user friendly 23 item checklist. They are presented numerically and categorised within six sections, namely: (i) title and abstract; (ii) introduction; (iii) methods; (iv) results; (v) discussion; and (vi) other. The MAPS statement is best applied in conjunction with the accompanying MAPS explanation and elaboration document.It is anticipated that the MAPS statement will improve the clarity, transparency and completeness of reporting of mapping studies. To facilitate dissemination and uptake, the MAPS statement is being co-published by eight health economics and quality of life journals, and broader endorsement is encouraged. The MAPS working group plans to assess the need for an update of the reporting checklist in five years' time.This statement was published jointly in Applied Health Economics and Health Policy, Health and Quality of Life Outcomes, International Journal of Technology Assessment in Health Care, Journal of Medical Economics, Medical Decision Making, PharmacoEconomics, and Quality of Life Research.

'Mapping' onto generic preference-based outcome measures is increasingly being used as a means of generating health utilities for use within health economic evaluations. Despite the publication of technical guides for the conduct of mapping research, guidance for the reporting of mapping studies is currently lacking. The MAPS (MApping onto Preference-based measures reporting Standards) statement is a new checklist, which aims to promote complete and transparent reporting of mapping studies. The primary audiences for the MAPS statement are researchers reporting mapping studies, the funders of the research, and peer reviewers and editors involved in assessing mapping studies for publication. A de novo list of 29 candidate reporting items and accompanying explanations was created by a working group comprising six health economists and one Delphi methodologist. Following a two-round modified Delphi survey with representatives from academia, consultancy, health technology assessment agencies and the biomedical journal editorial community, a final set of 23 items deemed essential for transparent reporting, and accompanying explanations, was developed. The items are contained in a user-friendly 23-item checklist. They are presented numerically and categorised within six sections, namely: (1) title and abstract; (2) introduction; (3) methods; (4) results; (5) discussion; and (6) other. The MAPS statement is best applied in conjunction with the accompanying MAPS explanation and elaboration document. It is anticipated that the MAPS statement will improve the clarity, transparency and completeness of reporting of mapping studies. To facilitate dissemination and uptake, the MAPS statement is being co-published by seven health economics and quality-of-life journals, and broader endorsement is encouraged. The MAPS working group plans to assess the need for an update of the reporting checklist in 5 years' time.

The process of "mapping" is increasingly being used to predict health utilities, for application within health economic evaluations, using data on other indicators or measures of health. Guidance for the reporting of mapping studies is currently lacking. The overall objective of this research was to develop a checklist of essential items, which authors should consider when reporting mapping studies. The MAPS (MApping onto Preference-based measures reporting Standards) statement is a checklist, which aims to promote complete and transparent reporting by researchers. This paper provides a detailed explanation and elaboration of the items contained within the MAPS statement. In the absence of previously published reporting checklists or reporting guidance documents, a de novo list of reporting items and accompanying explanations was created. A two-round, modified Delphi survey, with representatives from academia, consultancy, health technology assessment agencies and the biomedical journal editorial community, was used to identify a list of essential reporting items from this larger list. From the initial de novo list of 29 candidate items, a set of 23 essential reporting items was developed. The items are presented numerically and categorised within six sections, namely, (i) title and abstract, (ii) introduction, (iii) methods, (iv) results, (v) discussion and (vi) other. For each item, we summarise the recommendation, illustrate it using an exemplar of good reporting practice identified from the published literature, and provide a detailed explanation to accompany the recommendation. It is anticipated that the MAPS statement will promote clarity, transparency and completeness of reporting of mapping studies. It is targeted at researchers developing mapping algorithms, peer reviewers and editors involved in the manuscript review process for mapping studies, and the funders of the research. The MAPS working group plans to assess the need for an update of the reporting checklist in 5 years' time.

Waterpipe tobacco smoking is a traditional method of tobacco use, especially in the Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR), but its use is now spreading worldwide. Recent epidemiological data, for example, show that waterpipe smoking has become the most prevalent tobacco use method among adolescents in the EMR, and the second most prevalent in the US. Waterpipes are used socially, often being shared between friends or family at home, or in dedicated bars and cafes that provide waterpipes to patrons. Because the smoke passes through a reservoir of water, waterpipe tobacco smoking is perceived as being less harmful than other methods of tobacco use. At least in some cultures, women and girls are more likely to use a waterpipe than to use other forms of tobacco, and it is popular among younger smokers. Accumulating evidence suggests that some waterpipe smokers become addicted, have difficulty quitting, and experience similar health risks as cigarette smokers. To evaluate the effectiveness of tobacco cessation interventions for waterpipe users. We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Review Group specialized register in June 2015. We also searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and CINAHL , using variant terms and spellings ('waterpipe' or 'narghile' or 'arghile' or 'shisha' or 'goza' or 'narkeela' or 'hookah' or 'hubble bubble'). We searched for trials, published or unpublished, in any language, and especially in regions where waterpipe use is widespread. We sought randomized, quasi-randomized or cluster-randomized controlled trials of smoking cessation interventions for waterpipe smokers of any age or gender. The primary outcome of interest was abstinence from tobacco use, measured at six months post-cessation or longer, regardless of whether abstinence was biochemically verified. We included interventions that were pharmacological (for example, nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) or bupropion) or behavioural, or both, and could be directed at individual waterpipe users or at groups of users. We only included tobacco cessation interventions, and did not consider trials of prevention of uptake. Two review authors assessed abstracts of the studies retrieved by the search strategy, for possible inclusion in the review. We retrieved full-text articles for all abstracts that any of the authors believed might be suitable. Two review authors then extracted data and assessed trial quality independently in accordance with standard Cochrane Collaboration methodologies. We aimed to pool groups of studies that we considered to be sufficiently similar, provided there was no evidence of substantial statistical heterogeneity, and aimed to estimate a pooled risk ratio (RR) using the Mantel-Haenszel fixed-effect method. Where meta-analysis was not possible, we presented summary and descriptive statistics. Our search retrieved 1311 unique citations, of which 1289 were excluded after title and abstract screening. Of the remaining 22, we excluded 19 because they were empirical studies that were not randomized, quasi-randomized or cluster-randomized controlled trials (n = 12), because they were review articles (n = 3), because they described protocols only (n = 2), they were conducted among cigarette smokers only (n = 1), or they had only a three-month follow-up (n = 1).We identified three controlled trials which tested cessation interventions for waterpipe smokers. Studies were carried out in Egypt (Mohlman 2013), Pakistan (Dogar 2014), and the US (Lipkus 2011). One was a randomized controlled trial and two were cluster-randomized trials. Two studies tested individual-level interventions, and one tested a community-level intervention. Two studies included only behavioural interventions, and one study (Dogar 2014) included two intervention groups: one behavioural, and the other behavioural with bupropion. The Lipkus and Mohlman studies delivered waterpipe-specific interventions, and the Dogar study delivered a non-specific tobacco intervention. Due to study variation we did not pool results, and intervention effects are reported descriptively. Compared to control groups, waterpipe smoking cessation rates were higher in the intervention groups in all three studies, with a significant difference in two studies. For the Dogar study, the RRs for waterpipe smoking abstinence at 25 weeks among waterpipe-only smokers were 2.2 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.3 to 3.8; 180 participants) in the behavioural group, and 2.5 (95% CI 1.3 to 4.7; 84 participants) in the behavioural plus bupropion group. In our analysis we have combined both groups, to give a RR of 2.28 (95% CI 1.36 to 3.83; 200 participants). The Mohlman study delivered a RR in male waterpipe-smokers at one year in favour of the intervention of 3.25 (95% CI 1.19 to 8.89). Although the literature on waterpipe cessation interventions remains sparse, the reviewed studies provide a basis for developing interventions in this area. The lack of statistically significant effects in one of the three studies is not unexpected, given the small and pilot nature of the studies. The studies highlight important design and content issues that need to be considered for future cessation trials in waterpipe smokers. These include building on the vast experience developed in the study of smoking cessation interventions in cigarette smokers, whilst including components and assessment tools that address the specific aspects of waterpipe smoking, such as its social dimension, unique experiences, and cues.

What constitutes healthy eating is experiencing ongoing public debate, and this debate is increasingly taking place on the Internet. In this article, using a dialectical approach to analyse rhetorical discourse, we investigated how six highly popular Finnish nutrition counselling bloggers construct dietetic credibility and understanding. Their argumentation is compared to that of two academic experts contributing to the blog of the National Institute for Health and Welfare. Theoretically, we draw on Michael Billig's notions on how thinking and understanding are pervasively argumentative and reflect wider socio-cultural contexts, and on the dilemmatic nature of common sense. We demonstrate how the popular Finnish nutrition counselling bloggers rhetorically constructed a more particularistic and individualistic understanding of healthy eating in their argumentation in critical opposition to the universalistic and population-based understanding. In the popular Finnish nutrition counselling bloggers argumentation, practical, subjective and moral knowledge was valued, alongside abstract, scientific knowledge. In contrast, the National Institute for Health and Welfare bloggers typically utilised population-based averages and causalities in their argumentation. We argue that arguing over healthy eating in the public domain is fundamentally an epistemic struggle, in which different forms of knowledge and ways of knowing are valued, and dilemmas related to healthy eating are deliberated.

The handling of single cells is of great importance in applications such as cell line development or single-cell analysis, e.g., for cancer research or for emerging diagnostic methods. This review provides an overview of technologies that are currently used or in development to isolate single cells for subsequent single-cell analysis. Data from a dedicated online market survey conducted to identify the most relevant technologies, presented here for the first time, shows that FACS (fluorescence activated cell sorting) respectively Flow cytometry (33% usage), laser microdissection (17%), manual cell picking (17%), random seeding/dilution (15%), and microfluidics/lab-on-a-chip devices (12%) are currently the most frequently used technologies. These most prominent technologies are described in detail and key performance factors are discussed. The survey data indicates a further increasing interest in single-cell isolation tools for the coming years. Additionally, a worldwide patent search was performed to screen for emerging technologies that might become relevant in the future. In total 179 patents were found, out of which 25 were evaluated by screening the title and abstract to be relevant to the field.

The violence and injury observatories developed in Colombia and found throughout the Americas and Western Europe aim to maximise inter-institutional cooperation, information-sharing, analysis and security policy development initiatives to enhance governance. The purpose of the violence and injury observatories is directed towards preventing crime and violence at the local and regional levels. To date, there has been no systematic review of the literature to present a succinct review of the evidence. We therefore sought to summarise the evidence from existing studies on the contribution of violence and injury observatories towards violence prevention. A number of databases will be searched, supplemented by the same keyword searches in the grey literature. Search terms will include studies published from 1 January 1990 to 30 October 2014. Study quality will be assessed using a validated quality assessment tool. Two researchers will independently assess articles for study eligibility to reduce bias, minimise errors and enhance the reliability of findings. Disagreements will be resolved by consensus among three authors. This review protocol has been published in the PROSPERO International Prospective Register of systematic reviews, registration number 2014:CRD42014009818. There is a paucity of evidence for the effectiveness of violence and injury observatories and their influence on violence in an adult population. We plan to address this gap in knowledge by way of a systematic review and meta-analysis outlined in this abstract. We anticipate that the results could be used by researchers and policymakers to help inform them of the efficacy of violence and injury observatories and their broader role in contributing to violence prevention. CRD42014009818.

Homeless persons are known to be highly vulnerable to psychological trauma, in events triggering periods of homelessness and the considerable social isolation and adversity suffered when homeless. This study provides an account of how mental health support work is experienced by homeless service users when it is informed by a person-centred, non-directive approach and implemented by trainee health and social care professionals under the auspices of a specialized psychological trauma service. The study draws upon material gathered from interviews with service users domiciled in supported housing for homeless persons and support workers who practiced on the programme. The service users who participated in the study valued support work that combined practical and relational elements, but would have preferred a longer-term involvement. They also spoke of feelings of disconnection and estrangement from others including their peers in supported housing. The support worker participants valued the flexibility they had when working on the programme to tailor their intervention to service users' individual needs. Practice implications of the study are discussed. These include the need to minimize barriers to accessing support, facilitate informal time between professionals and homeless service users, and manage intervention endings sensitively when temporary staffing arrangements are in place. Homeless people are a population known to be highly vulnerable to trauma, in triggering events to becoming homeless and the considerable social isolation, discrimination, and adversity suffered when homeless. Currently, there is a paucity of research into mental health service delivery to homeless persons and the influence it imparts in individual lives. This article presents a qualitative 'practice research' study into a pilot programme of social support work delivered in a specialized psychological trauma service to homeless service users. The programme was grounded in a non-directive, person-centred approach and staffed by student social workers. The study aim was to explore the support work programme as it was received by service users domiciled in supported housing for homeless persons, encompassing experiencing the programme, worker-service user engagement and contextual influences bearing upon positive outcomes. Narrative interviews gathered the impressions of service users and support workers and the data arising from these interviews was analysed thematically. Service user participants valued support work that combined practical and relational elements, but would have preferred a longer-term involvement. They also spoke of feelings of disconnection and estrangement from their peers in the supported accommodation and their families. The worker participants valued the flexibility of person-centred work tailored to service users' individual needs and echoed service user concerns around the short-term nature of their involvement. Psychiatric nurses carrying out, or supervising, mental health support work with homeless service users should be mindful of the potential impact of temporary staffing arrangements on continuity of care. They should also consider how working from a person-centred perspective and addressing client's practical needs may aid in developing rapport and trust with homeless service users.

to identify and critically review the research literature that has examined fathers׳ involvement during labour and birth and their influence on decision making. the review follows the approach of a narrative review. Systematic searches of electronic databases Social Services Abstract, Sociological Abstracts, ASSIA, CINAHL Medline, Cochrane library, AMED, BNI, PsycINFO, Embase, Maternity and Infant care, DH-Data and the Kings Fund Database were combined with manual searches of key journals and reference lists. Studies published between 1992 and 2013 examining fathers׳ involvement during intrapartum care were included in the review. the findings of this review suggest that fathers׳ level of involvement during labour ranges from being a witness or passive observer of labour and birth to having an active supporting and coaching role. The findings also suggest that there are a number of facilitators and barriers to fathers׳ involvement during labour and birth. There are a limited number of studies that have examined fathers׳ involvement in decision making and specifically how fathers׳ influence decision making during labour and birth. future research needs to address the gap in the literature regarding fathers׳ involvement and influence on decision making to help midwives and obstetricians understand the process in order enhance the transition to parenthood for women and men.

To conduct a meta-ethnographic analysis of qualitative studies to identify barriers to Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) individuals engaging in physical activity in the UK context. A qualitative synthesis using meta-ethnographic methods to synthesis studies of barriers to engaging in physical activity among BME groups in the UK. A comprehensive search strategy of multiple databases was employed to identify qualitative research studies published up to October 2012. The eleven searched databases included ASSIA, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Health Technology Assessment (HTA), NHS Scotland Library, Physical Activity Health Alliance (PAHA), PsyINFO, Social Services Abstract, Sport discuss and Web of Science. The Noblit and Hare's meta-ethnographic approach was undertaken to develop an inductive and interpretive form of knowledge synthesis. Fourteen papers met the inclusion criteria. The synthesis indicated that barriers to physical activity among BME individuals were influenced by four main concepts: perceptions; cultural expectations; personal barriers; and factors limiting access to facilities. BME individuals had different understandings of physical activity were influenced by migration history, experiences, cultural and health beliefs. This in turn may have a disempowering effect on BME individuals in terms of adopting or maintaining physical activity. These barriers to physical activity were explained at a higher conceptual level by a socio-ecological model. The social construct 'individual perception and understanding of physical activity' was particularly relevant to theoretical models and interventions. Interventions to promote engagement with physical activity need to address perceptions of this behaviour. The elicited concepts and contexts could be used to enhance the development of tailored effective health promotion interventions for BME individuals.

In the theory of syndemics, diseases co-occur in particular temporal or geographical contexts due to harmful social conditions (disease concentration) and interact at the level of populations and individuals, with mutually enhancing deleterious consequences for health (disease interaction). This theory has widespread adherents in the field, but the extent to which there is empirical support for the concept of disease interaction remains unclear. In January 2015 we systematically searched 7 bibliographic databases and tracked citations to highly cited publications associated with the theory of syndemics. Of the 783 records, we ultimately included 34 published journal articles, 5 dissertations, and 1 conference abstract. Most studies were based on a cross-sectional design (32 [80%]), were conducted in the U.S. (32 [80%]), and focused on men who have sex with men (21 [53%]). The most frequently studied psychosocial problems were related to mental health (33 [83%]), substance abuse (36 [90%]), and violence (27 [68%]); while the most frequently studied outcome variables were HIV transmission risk behaviors (29 [73%]) or HIV infection (9 [23%]). To test the disease interaction concept, 11 (28%) studies used some variation of a product term, with less than half of these (5/11 [45%]) providing sufficient information to interpret interaction both on an additive and on a multiplicative scale. The most frequently used specification (31 [78%]) to test the disease interaction concept was the sum score corresponding to the total count of psychosocial problems. Although the count variable approach does not test hypotheses about interactions between psychosocial problems, these studies were much more likely than others (14/31 [45%] vs. 0/9 [0%]; χ2 = 6.25, P = 0.01) to incorporate language about "synergy" or "interaction" that was inconsistent with the statistical models used. Therefore, more evidence is needed to assess the extent to which diseases interact, either at the level of populations or individuals, to amplify HIV risk.

Patients' satisfaction is scarcely studied within the context of community treatment for adolescents. Thus, this study adopts a multiple perspective on patients' satisfaction (including service users as well as staff members). The results highlighted that all informants (patients, foster carers in foster homes and professional caregivers from community treatment teams) perceived the patients to be satisfied, with foster carers reporting the highest patient satisfaction rate. Considering the patient satisfaction rate from multiple perspectives provides complementary understandings. Clinical outcomes and, specifically, a reduction in emotional difficulties were related to patient's satisfaction, but only from the patients' perspective. Community treatment (CT) teams in Switzerland provide care to patients who are unable to use regular child and adolescent mental health services (i.e. inpatient and outpatients facilities). No study has considered patients' self-rated satisfaction alongside with staff members' perspectives on patient satisfaction. Thus, adopting a cross-sectional survey design, we collected patients' satisfaction using the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8), rated by multiple informants (patients, foster carers in foster homes and professional caregivers from CT teams). Professional caregivers assessed clinical outcomes using the Health of the Nation Outcome Scale for Children and Adolescents. The results indicated that all informants were satisfied with the community treatment teams. The satisfaction scores were not correlated across informants; however, the alleviation of emotional symptoms was correlated with patients' satisfaction. This study indicated that the use of a combined approach including the views of service users and professionals gives important complementary information. Finally, in our sample, lower emotional symptoms were linked to enhanced patient satisfaction. This study demonstrated the importance of considering multiple perspectives to obtain the most accurate picture of patients' satisfaction. Second, focusing on the reduction of emotional symptoms might lead to a higher degree of patients' satisfaction.

To assess the incidence of and risk factors for adverse long-term neurodevelopmental outcome in complicated monochorionic pregnancies treated with selective feticide at our centre between 2000 and 2011. Observational cohort study. National referral centre for fetal therapy (Leiden University Medical Centre, the Netherlands). Neurodevelopmental outcome was assessed in 74 long-term survivors. Children, at least 2 years of age, underwent an assessment of neurologic, motor and cognitive development using standardised psychometric tests and the parents completed a behavioural questionnaire. A composite outcome termed neurodevelopmental impairment including cerebral palsy (GMFCS II-V), cognitive and/or motor test score of <70, bilateral blindness or bilateral deafness requiring amplification. A total of 131 monochorionic pregnancies were treated with selective feticide at the Leiden University Medical Centre. Overall survival rate was 88/131 (67%). Long-term outcome was assessed in 74/88 (84%). Neurodevelopmental impairment was detected in 5/74 [6.8%, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.1-12.5] of survivors. Overall adverse outcome, including perinatal mortality or neurodevelopmental impairment was 48/131 (36.6%). In multivariate analysis, parental educational level was associated with cognitive test scores (regression coefficient B 3.9, 95% CI 1.8-6.0). Behavioural problems were reported in 10/69 (14.5%). Adverse long-term outcome in survivor twins of complicated monochorionic pregnancies treated with selective feticide appears to be more prevalent than in the general population. Cognitive test scores were associated with parental educational level. Neurodevelopmental impairment after selective feticide was detected in 5/74 (6.8%, 95% CI 1.1-12.5) of survivors.

In this paper I review broadly embodied, phenomenological and evolutionary conceptions of the origin of mathematics. I relate these conceptions to Husserl's work on the origins of geometry, and recent research into the notion of extended expertise and the role of enculturation as they relate to mathematical reasoning. I suggest that the concept of 'affordance space' - the (abstract) range of possibilities provided by any change in body or environment - is a useful construct in working out the contributions of evolution and enculturation to mathematical reasoning.

Thought Experiments in Historiographic Function: Max Weber on Eduard Meyer and the Question of Counterfactuality. Max Weber's remarks on his colleague Eduard Meyer regarding counterfactual reasoning in history reflects a significant shift during the Methodenstreit around 1900. The question of attributing historical change strictly to either individual causes or abstract general laws has been tackled in a new way: By counterfactual reasoning a historian should be able to detect the most significant (and therefore meaningful) cause, event, or action for a certain historical outcome. Following Fritz Ringer, this paper argues that given the predominating methods of the natural sciences, scholars of the humanities conducted historical research by counterfactual thought experiments. This way, Weber pried open contemporary narratives (e.g. historicism), and by employing a unique historical causal analysis he made way for refined concepts to offer a model of interpretation that gave hope for a more feasible, practice-oriented approach to historical research than the epistemological discussions had hitherto offered.

At the beginning of 2011, the early benefit assessment of new drugs was introduced in Germany with the Act on the Reform of the Market for Medicinal Products (AMNOG). The Federal Joint Committee (G-BA) generally commissions the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) with this type of assessment, which examines whether a new drug shows an added benefit (a positive patient-relevant treatment effect) over the current standard therapy. IQWiG is required to assess the extent of added benefit on the basis of a dossier submitted by the pharmaceutical company responsible. In this context, IQWiG was faced with the task of developing a transparent and plausible approach for operationalizing how to determine the extent of added benefit. In the case of an added benefit, the law specifies three main extent categories (minor, considerable, major). To restrict value judgements to a minimum in the first stage of the assessment process, an explicit and abstract operationalization was needed. The present paper is limited to the situation of binary data (analysis of 2 × 2 tables), using the relative risk as an effect measure. For the treatment effect to be classified as a minor, considerable, or major added benefit, the methodological approach stipulates that the (two-sided) 95% confidence interval of the effect must exceed a specified distance to the zero effect. In summary, we assume that our approach provides a robust, transparent, and thus predictable foundation to determine minor, considerable, and major treatment effects on binary outcomes in the early benefit assessment of new drugs in Germany. After a decision on the added benefit of a new drug by G-BA, the classification of added benefit is used to inform pricing negotiations between the umbrella organization of statutory health insurance and the pharmaceutical companies.

Canada's Correctional Investigator has found that mental health disorders, alone or in combination with alcohol and drug abuse, challenge public health and safety. Trauma is a key contributor among Canada's inmate population. Therapy dogs can assist in supporting individuals with mental health, addiction, and trauma concerns. This case report presents the work of a St. John Ambulance therapy dog in a trauma-informed approach to prisoner health. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration articulates six evidence-based trauma principles for service providers; safety; trustworthiness and transparency; peer support; collaboration and mutuality; empowerment, voice, and choice; and cultural, historical, and gender issues. These principles are used as a lens to examine what the therapy dog appears to offer instinctively and effortlessly in its interactions with prisoners. Illustrative examples are provided.Video Abstract available for additional insights from the authors (see Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JFN/A16).

Little is known about how the prison environment may impact upon the mental health of adult prisoners. This paper highlights that prisoners perceive that the prison environment has a negative influence upon their mental health. However, a small number regarded prison as a place of respite, which afforded structure and an opportunity to access health services. There is a need for more research in this area specifically relating to the impact the prison climate may have upon those from black and minority ethic groups. Nurses must recognize the aspects of the prison environment that may impact upon the mental health of prisoners and demonstrate innovation and imagination in their application of interventions. Little is known regarding how the prison environment may affect the mental health of adult prisoners. Consequently, there is a need to investigate how this setting may exacerbate mental distress among this community. This literature review explores how the prison climate influences the mental health of adult prisoners. A thematic synthesis approach was used to elicit data relating to the aspects of the prison climate, which influence the mental health of prisoners. Four primary themes emerged from the synthesis: social, emotional, organizational and physical aspects. Prisoners perceive the prison climate to have a negative influence upon their mental health. However, perceived positively, prison was regarded as a place of respite, which afforded structure and an opportunity to access health services. There is limited research available specifically exploring the potential impact of the prison climate upon those from black and ethnic minorities groups. Nurses must recognize the aspects of the prison environment that may impact upon the mental health of prisoners and demonstrate innovation and imagination in their application of interventions. Additionally nurses need to take an active role in influencing and structuring the political agenda, which governs the clinical setting.

PubMed, the Cochrane Library databases and the Virtual Health Library were searched from January 1950, with a manual search of the reference lists of the included studies. Duplicate papers, case reports, case series, descriptive studies, review articles, opinion articles and letters were excluded along with studies on children with oral defects, and ongoing preventative/restorative treatment and mothers who used antimicrobial substances. Two authors independently screened the title and abstract of all identified records, with consensus if required by a third author. A PECO (E= exposure) strategy was used to assess the eligibility of identified papers: observational human studies whose subjects were mother and child pairs; P contaminated by S.mutans; E comparison according to the presence and absence of S.mutans; C and whether there is vertical transmission (as defined by molecular analyses); O. Included studies were assessed for risk of bias. Two researchers extracted data on the methods, participants and outcomes, and the authors were contacted when it was necessary to clarify details. The percentage of transmission before and after the year 2000 was evaluated using the t-test and the molecular analysis technique was evaluated using ANOVA. A cumulative meta-analysis based on the publication year was performed, combining studies that assessed mother/child bionomy (pairs) and presented the percentage of transmission. Thirty-six cross-sectional studies were included, with the age of the children varying among the studies from three weeks to 15 years. All but one of the studies confirmed the vertical transmission of S. mutans from mother to child by genetic methods. The pooled cumulative meta-analysis demonstrated vertical transmission of S. mutans from mother to child (p<0.01) and showed a tendency of reduction in the percentage of vertical transmission compared with the year the studies were published.There was no significant difference in the transmission rate according to the type of technique used (p=0.39; ANOVA test). Quality assessment found that twenty-eight studies had bias such as confounding factors. All of the studies included were cross-sectional studies and therefore none was randomised. There were no reports of blinding in the selected studies although some studies evaluated the testing accuracy and repeatability or calibration; all included microbiological repetition. There is scientific evidence of vertical transmission of S. mutans from mother to child as there was an association between S. mutans strains in mothers and their respective children.

To determine the feasibility of completing a clinical trial of Supporting Play Exploration and Early Development Intervention (SPEEDI) that blends early and intense intervention with family support during the transition from the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) to home and the community. Ten infants born preterm were randomly assigned to intervention or usual care groups. Data on intervention frequency and parent feedback were used to determine the feasibility of SPEEDI. Effect sizes were calculated for motor and problem-solving outcome measures at the end of the intervention, 3 months adjusted age. Infants received on average 96.4% and 100.3% of anticipated NICU and home intervention. Only 28% of infants were receiving early intervention services during the SPEEDI period. Effect sizes were large and in the anticipated direction. SPEEDI is a feasible intervention and appropriate for future clinical trials. For more insights from the authors, see Supplemental Digital Content 1, available at http://links.lww.com/PPT/A83.

Was human fighting always there, as old as our species? Or is it a late cultural invention, emerging after the transition to agriculture and the rise of the state, which began, respectively, only around ten thousand and five thousand years ago? Viewed against the life span of our species, Homo sapiens, stretching back 150,000-200,000 years, let alone the roughly two million years of our genus Homo, this is the tip of the iceberg. We now have a temporal frame and plenty of empirical evidence for the "state of nature" that Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacque Rousseau discussed in the abstract and described in diametrically opposed terms. All human populations during the Pleistocene, until about 12,000 years ago, were hunter-gatherers, or foragers, of the simple, mobile sort that lacked accumulated resources. Studying such human populations that survived until recently or still survive in remote corners of the world, anthropology should have been uniquely positioned to answer the question of aboriginal human fighting or lack thereof. Yet access to, and the interpretation of, that information has been intrinsically problematic. The main problem has been the "contact paradox." Prestate societies have no written records of their own. Therefore, documenting them requires contact with literate state societies that necessarily affects the former and potentially changes their behavior, including fighting.

Ontario has a single payer provincial health insurance program. Administrative data may provide a potentially robust source of information for post-marketing vaccine studies. Vaccine-specific immunization billing codes were introduced in 2011. Our objective was to validate Ontario's universal health care administrative datasets to assess infant immunization status. Electronic medical record data from the Electronic Medical Record Administrative data Linked Database (EMRALD) was used as the reference standard to calculate performance characteristics of the Ontario Health Insurance Plan (OHIP) database vaccine-specific and general immunization codes for 4 primary infant immunizations: diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis, inactivated polio, Haemophilus influenzae type B (DTaP-IPV-Hib) combination vaccine, pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccine, and meningococcal conjugate serogroup C vaccine. OHIP billing claims had specificity ranging from 81% to 92%, sensitivity 70% to 83%, positive predictive value (PPV) 97% to 99%, and negative predictive value (NPV) 13% to 46% for identifying the various specific vaccines in administrative data. For cohorts vaccinated in the new code introduction phase, using both the vaccine-specific and general codes had higher sensitivity than the vaccine-specific codes alone. In conclusion, immunization billing claims from administrative data in Ontario had high specificity and PPV, moderate sensitivity, and low NPV. This study identifies some of the applications of utilizing administrative data for post-marketing vaccine studies. However, limitations of these data decrease their utility for measuring vaccine coverage and effectiveness. Therefore, the establishment of a comprehensive and linkable immunization registry should be a provincial priority.

Prior research has found dampened anticipatory pleasure but relatively intact consummatory pleasure in people with first-episode and more chronic schizophrenia, but no study has examined anticipatory and consummatory pleasure across the schizophrenia spectrum. To confirm the factor structure of the Chinese version of the Temporal Experience Pleasure Scale (TEPS), which measures four components of anhedonia, we recruited 364 people with schizophrenia for confirmatory factor analysis. To examine anhedonia in people across the schizophrenia spectrum, we recruited people with first-episode (n=76) and chronic schizophrenia (n=45), people with schizotypal traits (n=210), first-degree relatives (n=45) of people with schizophrenia and healthy controls. Deficit in abstract anticipatory pleasure appeared to be most severe in people with chronic schizophrenia, while dampened abstract consummatory pleasure was observed in people with schizotypal personality features and in people with chronic schizophrenia. In addition, both abstract anticipatory and abstract consummatory pleasure were negatively correlated with negative schizotypal personality features and schizophrenia symptoms. Our results suggest that deficits in anticipatory pleasure are present across the schizophrenia spectrum, particularly in the abstract domain.

ABSTRACT  Healthcare-associated infections (HAIs) caused by drug-resistant Gram-negative pathogens are a significant burden on the US healthcare system. This problem has been further compounded by the recent decline in the development of new antibiotics targeting Gram-negative organisms. US healthcare agencies have been working to limit the occurrence of HAIs by several means, including surveillance systems, prevention practices, antimicrobial stewardship policies and financial incentives. Furthermore, efforts have been made to resume the development of antibiotics in the USA, with the US FDA and US government both implementing acts to boost the number of antibiotics in the clinical pipeline. This review discusses the policies instigated by the US government, including healthcare agencies and the FDA, and describes new antibiotics in development against HAIs.

Social support has positive and negative dimensions, each of which has been associated with mental health outcomes. Social networks can also serve as sources of distress and conflict. This paper reviews journal articles published during the last 24 years to provide a consolidated summary of the role of social support and social conflict on immigrant women's mental health. The review reveals that social support can help immigrant women adjust to the new country, prevent depression and psychological distress, and access care and services. When social support is lacking or social networks act as a source of conflict, it can have negative effects on immigrant women's mental health. It is crucial that interventions, programmes, and services incorporate strategies to both enhance social support as well as reduce social conflict, in order to improve mental health and well-being of immigrant women. Researchers have documented the protective role of social support and the harmful consequences of social conflict on physical and mental health. However, consolidated information about social support, social conflict, and mental health of immigrant women in Canada is not available. This scoping review examined literature from the last 24 years to understand how social support and social conflict affect the mental health of immigrant women in Canada. We searched MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Healthstar, and EMBASE for peer-reviewed publications focusing on mental health among immigrant women in Canada. Thirty-four articles that met our inclusion criteria were reviewed, and are summarized under the following four headings: settlement challenges and the need for social support; social support and mental health outcomes; social conflict and reciprocity; and social support, social conflict, and mental health service use. The results revealed that social support can have a positive effect on immigrant women's mental health and well-being, and facilitate social inclusion and the use of health services. When social support is lacking or social networks act as a source of conflict, it can have negative effects on immigrant women's mental health. The results also highlighted the need for health services to be linguistically-appropriate and culturally-safe, and provide appropriate types of care and support in a timely manner in order to be helpful to immigrant women.

Very little research has been conducted into the role of nurses in relation to patients' mental health tribunals (known in some countries as review panels). In England nurses are playing an increasingly important role in giving evidence at tribunals and, since October 2013, are required to provide much more detailed written reports than previously. This is the first published study to examine the content of nursing tribunal reports. Overall, the quality of nursing reports was patchy and not as good as those of psychiatrists or social workers, but there was improvement when the audit was repeated. Writing reports for tribunals is a comparatively new and perhaps unfamiliar requirement for nursing staff. Nurses need training in report writing and protected time and a quiet area to write reports. Providing these things is a real challenge on busy inpatient wards. In October 2013, the Tribunals Judiciary of England issued a new practice direction stipulating how tribunal reports should be completed. This paper aimed to study the quality of nursing tribunal reports in a secure inpatient service before and after the introduction of the latest practice direction and the issuing of a local template to aid report writing. A total of 160 reports (80 written in 2013 and 80 in 2014) were scored on the presence of 24 key items derived from the latest practice direction. The quality of nursing reports improved in the re-audit from an average of 36.3% of key items present to 51.3% but still lagged behind that of medical and social circumstances reports. Even in the second audit, few reports were signed or commented on why the patient should remain detained. Report length increased from a mean of 2.9 to 4.0 pages but only 27.5% of reports used the template despite widespread publicity. Use of the template resulted in better quality reports. Among other interventions, a training programme in report writing is now underway to assist nurses with meeting the new practice direction requirements. Nurses also need supervision, protected time and a quiet area for report writing.

Personality psychology has made enormous progresses over the years by accumulating empirical evidence on how patterns of stable individual differences in behaviours can be clustered systematically at different levels of abstraction (i.e. traits and facets) and how they can predict important consequential outcomes. At the same time, functionally orientated researchers have accumulated a vast body of knowledge on environment-behaviour relations and the underlying behavioural principles, that is, abstract descriptions of the way in which behaviour is a function of elements in the past and present environment. We explore a functional perspective on personality that attempts to bridge the two domains and to exploit the best of both worlds. From this functional perspective, personality refers to the impact of the individual on different types of environment-behaviour relations as well as on the way other factors moderate those relations. We discuss the potential of this functional perspective on personality to organise existing scientific knowledge and inspire future research.

Population-representative surveys that assess childhood maltreatment and health are a valuable resource to explore the implications of child maltreatment for population health. Systematic identification and evaluation of such surveys is needed to facilitate optimal use of their data and to inform future research. To inform researchers of the existence and nature of population-representative surveys relevant to understanding links between childhood maltreatment and health; to evaluate the assessment of childhood maltreatment in this body of work. We included surveys that: 1) were representative of the non-institutionalized population of any size nation or of any geopolitical region ≥ 10 million people; 2) included a broad age range (≥ 40 years); 3) measured health; 4) assessed childhood maltreatment retrospectively; and 5) were conducted since 1990. We used Internet and database searching (including CINAHL, Embase, ERIC, Global Health, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Scopus, Social Policy and Practice: January 1990 to March 2014), expert consultation, and other means to identify surveys and associated documentation. Translations of non-English survey content were verified by fluent readers of survey languages. We developed checklists to abstract and evaluate childhood maltreatment content. Fifty-four surveys from 39 countries met inclusion criteria. Sample sizes ranged from 1,287-51,945 and response rates from 15%-96%. Thirteen surveys assessed neglect, 15 emotional abuse; 18 exposure to family violence; 26 physical abuse; 48 sexual abuse. Fourteen surveys assessed more than three types; six of these were conducted since 2010. In nine surveys childhood maltreatment assessments were detailed (+10 items for at least one type of maltreatment). Seven surveys' assessments had known reliability and/or validity. Data from 54 surveys can be used to explore the population health relevance of child maltreatment. Assessment of childhood maltreatment is not comprehensive but there is evidence of recent improvement.

Many repatriates find it challenging to readjust to their heritage culture after spending a significant period of time abroad. Research on predictors of readjustment, however, remains limited. The present study in particular investigated the identification of third culture individuals (TCIs) - that is, individuals who spent their formative years outside of their heritage culture - with an abstract, third culture. Our findings demonstrated that TCIs' identification with the third culture was empirically distinct from that of the heritage and host cultures. The present study further examined whether several variables - sojourner type (TCI vs. non-TCI), perceived conflict between heritage and host culture, perceived cultural distance, and cultural identification with heritage and other cultures - predicted psychological readjustment (stress, anxiety, depression and overall psychological readjustment). The results showed that strong heritage culture identification was associated with better psychological readjustment, whereas cultural conflict was generally associated with poorer readjustment. Furthermore, sojourner type significantly moderated the latter association, such that cultural conflict predicted the stress aspect of psychological readjustment for non-TCIs, but not for TCIs. As the present investigation is the first study to empirically establish identification with a 'third culture' we discuss implications for the literature on third culture individuals and psychological adjustment upon re-entry.

English law expects health professionals to have, and act upon, consciences, but formal conscience clauses are not the main legal recognition of this expectation. Rather, they should be regarded as an anomaly with roots in very specific political settlements between society and health professions, whose legitimacy is historically contingent, and as an aspect of the 'price' to be paid for securing services. There are sound reasons for the protection of conscientious discretion as an aspect of professional identify, but specific rights of personal conscientious objection are difficult to reconcile with legitimate public expectations of comprehensive and non-discriminatory services. Professional identities include moral commitments, such as the privileging of patient safety over administrative convenience. These should not be permitted to be overridden by personal moralities during the course of service delivery (as opposed to debating in the abstract what the proper courses of action should be). Consequently, formal conscientious objection clauses should be reduced to a minimum and regularly revisited. It is generally more satisfactory to address clashes between the personal moralities of professionals and public expectations through more flexible means, enabling accommodation of a plurality of views where possible but acknowledging that this is a matter of striking an appropriate balance. Employment law rather than healthcare law provides the best mechanism for regulating this process.

No research has been conducted into the experience of peer support in improving adherence with oral antipsychotic medication for consumers with schizophrenia. Altruism influences peers to participate in peer support. Engagement in peer support can be challenging and rewarding for peers, and helps improve their own confidence and well-being. Many consumers with schizophrenia are reluctant to take their prescribed antipsychotic medications; however, non-adherence can lead to relapse. The aim of this study was to evaluate peers' perspectives of their participation in a problem-solving peer support programme to enhance adherence in consumers who are reluctant to take antipsychotic medication. Peers contacted consumers by a weekly telephone call for 8 weeks, and used a problem-solving approach to inform their discussion about medication adherence. Semi-structured qualitative interviews were used to evaluate peers' perspectives of their involvement in the programme. Three main themes were abstracted from the data: motivation to participate in the study, experience of peer support programme, and rewards and challenges of the peer experience. Helping others was an important motivator for peers in agreeing to participate in the study. Telephone delivery was a convenient way to deliver the peer support programme. However, at times, it was difficult to contact consumers by telephone and this caused some frustration. Despite these difficulties, peers recognized that being involved in the programme increased their confidence and made them feel worthwhile. The findings have implications for the use of peer support as an adjunct intervention to promote medication adherence in consumers with schizophrenia.

After participating in this activity, learners should be better able to:Evaluate emerging concepts of identification, treatment and discharge planning for individuals who are experiencing a first psychotic episode while detained in the criminal justice system. The United States incarcerates more people than any other nation in the world. The system of jails and prisons that holds those individuals has become the largest provider of mental health care in the country, with rates of psychotic illness many times higher than in the community. A subset of this population includes individuals experiencing their first episode of psychosis who are untreated and are new to the rules of institutional settings. Retrospective and anecdotal reports indicate that many individuals in the criminal justice system have first-episode psychosis, yet no published information is available about the actual rates. For these patients, behavior associated with psychotic symptoms may have led to their arrest, but correctional facilities are poorly equipped to identify their needs and to provide the type of comprehensive treatment needed to improve functional status, quality of life, and illness recovery. Even as first-episode programs are flourishing in community settings, we know little about how to identify, engage, possibly divert, and treat these patients in settings designed as punishment. Efforts should be made both to reduce the number of these individuals inappropriately prosecuted within the criminal justice system and to begin in-jail efforts to engage them in treatment, in anticipation of their eventual return to the community.

Elder abuse, a universal human rights problem, is associated with many negative consequences. In most jurisdictions, however, there are no comprehensive hospital-based interventions for elder abuse that address the totality of needs of abused older adults: psychological, physical, legal, and social. As the first step towards the development of such an intervention, we undertook a systematic scoping review. Our primary objective was to systematically extract and synthesize actionable and applicable recommendations for components of a multidisciplinary intersectoral hospital-based elder abuse intervention. A secondary objective was to summarize the characteristics of the responses reviewed, including methods of development and validation. The grey and scholarly literatures were systematically searched, with two independent reviewers conducting the title, abstract and full text screening. Documents were considered eligible for inclusion if they: 1) addressed a response (e.g., an intervention) to elder abuse, 2) contained recommendations for responding to abused older adults with potential relevance to a multidisciplinary and intersectoral hospital-based elder abuse intervention; and 3) were available in English. The extracted recommendations for care were collated, coded, categorized into themes, and further reviewed for relevancy to a comprehensive hospital-based response. Characteristics of the responses were summarized using descriptive statistics. 649 recommendations were extracted from 68 distinct elder abuse responses, 149 of which were deemed relevant and were categorized into 5 themes: Initial contact; Capacity and consent; Interview with older adult, caregiver, collateral contacts, and/or suspected abuser; physical/forensic, mental, psychosocial, and environmental/functional; and care plan. Only 6 responses had been evaluated, suggesting a significant gap between development and implementation of recommendations. To address the lack of evidence to support the recommendations extracted in this review, in a future study, a group of experts will formally evaluate each recommendation for its inclusion in a comprehensive hospital-based response.

Euthanasia remains a controversial topic in both public discourses and legislation. Although some determinants of acceptance of euthanasia and physician-assisted death have been identified in previous studies, there is still a shortage of information whether different forms of euthanasia are supported by the same or different sub-populations and whether authoritarian personality dispositions are linked to attitudes towards euthanasia. A large, representative face-to-face survey was conducted in Austria in 2014 (n = 1,971). Respondents faced three scenarios of euthanasia and one of physician assisted death differing regarding the level of specificity, voluntariness and subject, requiring either approval or rejection: (1) abstract description of euthanasia, (2) abstract description of physician-assisted suicide, (3) the case of euthanasia of a terminally-ill 79-year old cancer patient, and (4) the case of non-voluntary, physician assisted death of a severely disabled or ill neonate. A number of potential determinants for rejection ordered in three categories (socio-demographic, personal experience, orientations) including authoritarianism were tested via multiple logistic regression analyses. Rejection was highest in the case of the neonate (69%) and lowest for the case of the older cancer patient (35%). A consistent negative impact of religiosity on the acceptance across all scenarios and differential effects for socio-economic status, area of residence, religious confession, liberalism, and authoritarianism were found. Individuals with a stronger authoritarian personality disposition were more likely to reject physician-assisted suicide for adults but at the same time also more likely to approve of physician-assisted death of a disabled neonate. Euthanasia in adults was supported by a partially different sub-population than assisted death of disabled neonates.

Cocaine abuse, as well as prenatal exposure to cocaine, could be key factors in the expression of violent behaviour. Neuropsychological impairments, sex differences and the concurrent abuse of cocaine and alcohol have been suggested as facilitation mechanisms. To review and recapitulate the results obtained on the relationship between neuropsychological deficits due to cocaine abuse and/or prenatal exposure and the expression of violence. Furthermore, we analyze the roles of sex, concurrent alcohol abuse and possible brain damage as risk markers in this relationship. The scientific literature was reviewed using Google Scholar, PsycINFO, PubMed, Medline and ISI Web of Knowledge. Cocaine facilitates the expression of violence due to neuropsychological deficits in emotional decoding, abstract reasoning and inhibitory control, as well as in mnemonic and verbal skills, and such impairments might also explain problems in decision-making. Both the deficits and the expression of violence appear to be more pronounced in men than in women. However, despite the fact that the combination of cocaine and alcohol use may increase the risk of violent reactions, the deficits would not be greater than those resulting from the separate use of each substance. The impairments might be caused by functional abnormalities of certain regions of the frontal (especially the prefrontal) and parietal lobes and some subcortical structures, such as the amygdala. All of this would provide a basis for the development of intervention strategies focusing on these cognitive domains.

Many parents consider fever a disease in itself and feel disempowered when their child is ill. Numerous guidelines have been produced; however, their target audience remains healthcare professionals and not carers of children in general. A reliable source of information will decrease worry in parents and carers when managing a febrile child. A systematic search will be conducted in nine electronic databases. Articles published in English, or with an abstract published in English, will be eligible for inclusion in the review. Unpublished literature, grey literature and consultation with experts in the area will be used to supplement database searching. Titles and abstracts of studies will be screened for inclusion in the study by two independent reviewers against pre-determined inclusion and exclusion criteria. A data extraction form will be designed and data will be extracted to provide detail of the included studies by a further two reviewers. Quality assessment of studies will be conducted by two additional independent reviewers and results will be used to moderate included studies. All disagreements will be resolved through discussion until consensus is reached. Thematic synthesis will be used to analyse results. Correct management of fever in children is not well understood in the general population. Although carers can identify fever and febrile illness in children, determination of the severity of fever proves challenging. Research is needed to cohere existing evidence and identify knowledge gaps. It is envisaged that results of this review will contribute to the development of trustworthy, accessible guidelines for parents and carers of children with fever or febrile illness. PROSPERO CRD42014009812.

The research question how contextual factors of neighbourhood environments influence individual health has gained increasing attention in public health research. Both socioeconomic neighbourhood characteristics and factors of the built environment play an important role for health and health-related behaviours. However, their reciprocal relationships have not been systematically reviewed so far. This systematic review aims to identify studies applying a multilevel modelling approach which consider both neighbourhood socioeconomic position (SEP) and factors of the objective built environment simultaneously in order to disentangle their independent and interactive effects on individual health. The three databases PubMed, PsycINFO, and Web of Science were systematically searched with terms for title and abstract screening. Grey literature was not included. Observational studies from USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and Western European countries were considered which analysed simultaneously factors of neighbourhood SEP and the objective built environment with a multilevel modelling approach. Adjustment for individual SEP was a further inclusion criterion. Thirty-three studies were included in qualitative synthesis. Twenty-two studies showed an independent association between characteristics of neighbourhood SEP or the built environment and individual health outcomes or health-related behaviours. Twenty-one studies found cross-level or within-level interactions either between neighbourhood SEP and the built environment, or between neighbourhood SEP or the built environment and individual characteristics, such as sex, individual SEP or ethnicity. Due to the large variation of study design and heterogeneous reporting of results the identification of consistent findings was problematic and made quantitative analysis not possible. There is a need for studies considering multiple neighbourhood dimensions and applying multilevel modelling in order to clarify their causal relationship towards individual health. Especially, more studies using comparable characteristics of neighbourhood SEP and the objective built environment and analysing interactive effects are necessary to disentangle health impacts and identify vulnerable neighbourhoods and population groups.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) represents a common comorbidity in schizophrenia, but questions remain regarding how this comorbidity is related to symptomatology and self-perceptions. Forty-two patients with recent-onset schizophrenia were evaluated for SAD, and assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), as well as the Social Comparison Scale (SCS), which assessed how participants perceived themselves in relation with others (i.e., social rank). Eighteen patients met criteria for SAD (SZ+) while 24 patients did not (SZ-). Analysis of symptoms using a five-factor model of the PANSS revealed that the SZ- group had more severe symptoms than SZ+ on the Cognitive/Disorganization factor. Further analyses of individual symptoms demonstrated that the SZ- group was more affected in attention, abstract thinking, and cognitive disorganization (Cognitive/Disorganization symptoms), while the SZ+ group was more severely affected in anxiety, suspiciousness/persecution, and active social avoidance. Interestingly, severity of social anxiety symptom ratings correlated with certain PANSS symptoms only in the SZ- group. Perception of social rank, which was reduced in SZ+, displayed a trend level correlation with the positive symptoms in SZ-. Overall, the results suggest that SZ+ and SZ- may have different clinical profiles that could be important to consider when tailoring treatments for these patients.

There are ongoing efforts to improve the quality of surgical care for children in low and middle-income countries (LMICs) in Africa. The purpose of this study was to review the recent literature and estimate the mortality associated with pediatric surgical conditions in this setting. We completed a comprehensive search for studies that: (1) reported outcomes associated with pediatric surgical conditions; (2) were conducted in LMICs in Africa; and (3) were published between 2007 and 2012. Abstract screening, full-text review, and data abstraction were completed in duplicate. Mortality rates were pooled using a random effects model. Out of 2085 abstracts, 292 were selected for textual review, and 107 underwent complete data abstraction. Only 74 (68%) of these reported mortality explicitly. The highest pooled mortality rates were seen with esophageal atresia (72%), midgut volvulus (36%), and jejunoileal atresia (35%). Pooled mortality was 17% for congenital conditions and 9% for acquired disease. The overall mortality rate for all conditions was 12%. Mortality following pediatric surgical conditions in LMICs in Africa remains high, especially for congenital conditions in neonates. Future studies should report mortality explicitly and provide accurate follow-up data whenever possible.

Perceptions of intentionality critically guide everyday social interactions, though the literature provides diverging portraits of how such judgments are made. One view suggests that people have an "intentionality bias," predisposing them toward labeling behaviors as intentional. A second view focuses on a more complex pattern of reasoning whereby judgments of intentionality are shaped by information about social context and mental states. Drawing on the theory of action-identification, we attempt to integrate these two perspectives. We propose that people parse intentionality into two categories: judgments about concrete, low-level behaviors and judgments about relatively more abstract, high-level behaviors. Evidence from five studies supports this distinction. Low-level behaviors were perceived as intentional regardless of mental state information, supporting the "intentionality bias" view. In contrast, judgments about the intentionality of high-level behaviors varied depending on social context and mental states, supporting the systematic view of intentionality.

The associations between prenatal cocaine exposure (PCE) and adolescent behavior, cognitive development, and physical growth were examined in 219 15-year-olds who have participated in a longitudinal study since their fourth gestational month. During the first trimester, 42% of the women used cocaine, with use declining across pregnancy. At the 15-year follow-up, the caregivers were, on average, 43 years old, had 13 years of education, and 50% were African American. First trimester PCE was not associated with global cognitive development or with measures of learning and memory. First trimester PCE was significantly related to adolescent-reported delinquent behavior, poorer problem solving and abstract reasoning, and reduced weight, height, and head circumference at 15 years. These results were significant after other factors that affect these domains were controlled in regression analyses. In addition, exposure to violence partially mediated the effect of PCE on delinquent behavior. These adolescent domains are important because they are predictors of poorer adult functioning.

The issue of public acceptability of health policies is key if they are to have significant and lasting impact. This study, based on focus groups conducted in England, examines the ways people responded to, and made sense of, policy ideas aimed at reducing alcohol consumption. Although effective policies were supported in the abstract, specific proposals were consistently rejected because they were not thought to map onto the fundamental causes of excessive drinking, which was not attributed to alcohol itself but instead its cultural context. Rather than being influenced by the credibility of evidence, or assessed according to likely gains set against possible losses, such responses were established dynamically as people interacted with others to make sense of the topic. This has significant implications for policy-makers, suggesting that existing beliefs and knowledge need to be taken into account as potentially productive rather than obstructive resources.

How do increasing temporal and spatial distance affect the emotions people feel and express in response to tragic events? Standard views suggest that emotional intensity should decrease but are silent on changes in emotional quality. Using a large Twitter data set, we identified temporal and spatial patterns in use of emotional and cognitive words in tweets about the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. Although use of sadness words decreased with time and spatial distance, use of anxiety words showed the opposite pattern and was associated with concurrent increases in language reflecting causal thinking. In a follow-up experiment, we found that thinking about abstract causes (as opposed to concrete details) of this event similarly evoked decreased sadness but increased anxiety, which was associated with perceptions that a similar event might occur in the future. These data challenge current theories of emotional reactivity and identify time, space, and abstract causal thinking as factors that elicit categorical shifts in emotional responses to tragedy.

Intuitive theories about the malleability of intellectual ability affect our motivation and achievement in life. But how are such theories shaped by the culture in which an individual is raised? We addressed this question by exploring how Indian children's and adults' attitudes toward the Hindu caste system--and its deterministic worldview--are related to differences in their intuitive theories. Strikingly, we found that, beginning at least in middle school and continuing into adulthood, individuals who placed more importance on caste were more likely to adopt deterministic intuitive theories. We also found a developmental change in the scope of this relationship, such that in children, caste attitudes were linked only to abstract beliefs about personal freedom, but that by adulthood, caste attitudes were also linked to beliefs about the potential achievement of members of different castes, personal intellectual ability, and personality attributes. These results are the first to directly relate the societal structure in which a person is raised to the specific intuitive theories they adopt.

No abstract available.

US common law recites a natural law, natural phenomenon or abstract idea as exceptions to the 4 statutory patentable categories to guard against the wholesale preemption of fundamental principles. The very recent evolutions of patent exceptions in the US may increase the difficulty of patenting and may create uncertainty in determining patent eligibility. To solve the thorny problem of eligibility, this study presents a flow chart based on the courts' decisions that can serve as a set of guidelines for determining patent eligibility. A case related to prostate cancer immune therapy is presented for discussion.

Abstract Prevalence of childhood overweight and obesity remains high in Ireland. In this study an intervention conducted within primary care was evaluated. This involved a structured discussion with parents at the 13 month immunisations with their general practitioner (GP), including measuring weight of the toddler and parental education regarding healthy nutrition and physical activity for their toddler. There was a telephone follow-up interview with parents three months later assessing change in toddler diet/lifestyle. Endpoints assessed included parents' reports of specific lifestyle parameters with regard to the toddler and parental assessment of the usefulness of the intervention. 39 toddlers were studied. Most lifestyle parameters had improved at follow up. Reported fruit and vegetable intake of more than 4 portions per day increased from 20.5% of toddlers at baseline 28.6% at follow up. The number of toddlers abstaining from unhealthy snacks increased from 15.4% to 21.4%. Television watching of more than 2 hours daily decreased from 12.8% to 0%. Supervised exercise of more than thirty minutes per day increased from 69.2% to 89.3%. The majority of parents reported at follow up that they found the intervention acceptable (100%, n = 28) and useful (79%, n = 22).

The aim of cross-cultural adaptation (CCA) of a questionnaire is to achieve equivalence between the original and adapted questionnaire. Here, we aimed to review the state of the art in CCA methods. We reviewed cross-disciplinary bibliographic databases for articles on methods and guidelines for CCA of questionnaires. Articles were first selected by their abstract and title, and then, we retrieved full-text English articles. References of selected articles were searched for additional relevant studies. We identified 31 guidelines and found no consensus in CCA methods. Most methods included use of committees, focus groups, and back translations. Evidence for the best methods is lacking, although clues indicate that back translation may not be mandatory. Several methods are available for CCA of questionnaires. According to experts only, most would achieve comparable results, and choosing one is a matter of preference and logistic. More evidence is needed to support recommendations. Adaptation and validation of a questionnaire are two different processes that should be distinguished and undertaken with care.

Cost-effectiveness analysis involves the comparison of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a new technology, which is more costly than existing alternatives, with the cost-effectiveness threshold. This indicates whether or not the health expected to be gained from its use exceeds the health expected to be lost elsewhere as other health-care activities are displaced. The threshold therefore represents the additional cost that has to be imposed on the system to forgo 1 quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of health through displacement. There are no empirical estimates of the cost-effectiveness threshold used by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. (1) To provide a conceptual framework to define the cost-effectiveness threshold and to provide the basis for its empirical estimation. (2) Using programme budgeting data for the English NHS, to estimate the relationship between changes in overall NHS expenditure and changes in mortality. (3) To extend this mortality measure of the health effects of a change in expenditure to life-years and to QALYs by estimating the quality-of-life (QoL) associated with effects on years of life and the additional direct impact on QoL itself. (4) To present the best estimate of the cost-effectiveness threshold for policy purposes. Earlier econometric analysis estimated the relationship between differences in primary care trust (PCT) spending, across programme budget categories (PBCs), and associated disease-specific mortality. This research is extended in several ways including estimating the impact of marginal increases or decreases in overall NHS expenditure on spending in each of the 23 PBCs. Further stages of work link the econometrics to broader health effects in terms of QALYs. The most relevant 'central' threshold is estimated to be £12,936 per QALY (2008 expenditure, 2008-10 mortality). Uncertainty analysis indicates that the probability that the threshold is < £20,000 per QALY is 0.89 and the probability that it is < £30,000 per QALY is 0.97. Additional 'structural' uncertainty suggests, on balance, that the central or best estimate is, if anything, likely to be an overestimate. The health effects of changes in expenditure are greater when PCTs are under more financial pressure and are more likely to be disinvesting than investing. This indicates that the central estimate of the threshold is likely to be an overestimate for all technologies which impose net costs on the NHS and the appropriate threshold to apply should be lower for technologies which have a greater impact on NHS costs. The central estimate is based on identifying a preferred analysis at each stage based on the analysis that made the best use of available information, whether or not the assumptions required appeared more reasonable than the other alternatives available, and which provided a more complete picture of the likely health effects of a change in expenditure. However, the limitation of currently available data means that there is substantial uncertainty associated with the estimate of the overall threshold. The methods go some way to providing an empirical estimate of the scale of opportunity costs the NHS faces when considering whether or not the health benefits associated with new technologies are greater than the health that is likely to be lost elsewhere in the NHS. Priorities for future research include estimating the threshold for subsequent waves of expenditure and outcome data, for example by utilising expenditure and outcomes available at the level of Clinical Commissioning Groups as well as additional data collected on QoL and updated estimates of incidence (by age and gender) and duration of disease. Nonetheless, the study also starts to make the other NHS patients, who ultimately bear the opportunity costs of such decisions, less abstract and more 'known' in social decisions. The National Institute for Health Research-Medical Research Council Methodology Research Programme.

Although many endophenotypes for schizophrenia have been studied individually, few studies have examined the extent to which common neurocognitive and neurophysiological measures reflect shared versus unique endophenotypic factors. It may be possible to distill individual endophenotypes into composite measures that reflect dissociable, genetically informative elements. The first phase of the Consortium on the Genetics of Schizophrenia (COGS-1) is a multisite family study that collected neurocognitive and neurophysiological data between 2003 and 2008. For these analyses, participants included schizophrenia probands (n=83), their nonpsychotic siblings (n=151), and community comparison subjects (n=209) with complete data on a battery of 12 neurocognitive tests (assessing domains of working memory, declarative memory, vigilance, spatial ability, abstract reasoning, facial emotion processing, and motor speed) and 3 neurophysiological tasks reflecting inhibitory processing (P50 gating, prepulse inhibition and antisaccade tasks). Factor analyses were conducted on the measures for each subject group and across the entire sample. Heritability analyses of factors were performed using SOLAR. Analyses yielded 5 distinct factors: 1) Episodic Memory, 2) Working Memory, 3) Perceptual Vigilance, 4) Visual Abstraction, and 5) Inhibitory Processing. Neurophysiological measures had low associations with these factors. The factor structure of endophenotypes was largely comparable across probands, siblings and controls. Significant heritability estimates for the factors ranged from 22% (Episodic Memory) to 39% (Visual Abstraction). Neurocognitive measures reflect a meaningful amount of shared variance whereas the neurophysiological measures reflect largely unique contributions as endophenotypes for schizophrenia. Composite endophenotype measures may inform our neurobiological and genetic understanding of schizophrenia.

Patterns in parents' socialization of prosocial behavior in 18- and 24-month-olds (n=46) were investigated during an everyday household chore that parents were asked to complete with their toddlers. Two socialization approaches were distinguished, one focused on specific requests for concrete actions needed to complete an immediate, concrete goal ("action-oriented"), and a second focused on the more abstract needs and emotions of the parent and the child's role as a helper ("need-oriented'). Parents were equally active at both ages in trying to elicit children's help but used different strategies with younger and older toddlers. With 18-month-olds they used more action-oriented approaches, whereas with 24-month-olds they increased their use of need-oriented approaches. They also regulated the attention of younger toddlers more, and more often socially approved older toddlers' helping. Thus, how parents prompt, support, and encourage prosocial behavior changes over the second year from utilizing primarily concrete, goal-directed requests in the service of the immediate task, to increasingly emphasizing more abstract needs and emotions of the recipient and the child's role as a helper.

Social exclusion is a painful experience. Recent research has shown, however, that coping with exclusion can be facilitated by favorable conditions. In the current research, we investigated whether construal level affects recovery from social exclusion. We hypothesized that an abstract vs. concrete mindset would moderate coping with exclusion. Indeed, lower compared to higher concrete thinking (Study 1) and abstract compared to concrete thinking (Study 2) bolstered the basic need of belonging when excluded. Priming of abstract thinking, moreover, increased participants' sense of belonging both in response to exclusion and inclusion relative to no priming (Study 3). Our results are the first to establish a relationship between construal level and social exclusion, thereby suggesting an alleviating "abstraction discount" effect for the consequences of social exclusion.

Previous patient-level acute myocardial infarction (AMI) research has found higher hospital spending to be associated with improved survival; however, survivor-treatment selection bias traditionally has been overlooked. The purpose of this study was to examine the AMI cost-outcome relationship, taking into account this form of bias. Hospital Discharge Abstract data tracked costs for AMI hospitalizations. Ontario Vital Statistics data tracked patient mortality. A standard Cox survival model was compared to an extended Cox model using hospital costs as a time-varying covariate to examine the impact of cost on 1-year survival in a cohort of 30,939 first-time AMI patients in Ontario, Canada, from 2007 to 2010. Higher patient-level AMI spending decreased the hazard of dying (Standard Model: log-cost hazard ratio: 0.513, 95 percent CI: 0.479-0.549; Extended Model: log-cost hazard ratio: 0.700, 95 percent CI: 0.645-0.758); however, the protective effect was overestimated by 62 percent when survivor-treatment bias was overlooked. In the extended model, a 10 percent increase in spending was associated with a 3.6 percent decrease in hazard of death. The findings of this study suggest that if survivor-treatment bias is overlooked, future research may materially overstate the protective effect of patient-level spending on outcomes.

The aims of this study were to 1) calculate rates for maxillofacial (MF) injury-related visits in emergency departments (EDs) and hospitals in Ontario, Canada, 2) identify and rank common causes for MF injuries, 3) investigate the variation and trends in MF injuries according to gender, age, and socioeconomic status, and 4) describe the geographic distribution of MF injuries. An 8-year retrospective study design was implemented. The Discharge Abstract Database and the National Ambulatory Care Reporting System datasets were used. After examining demographic and diagnostic information, frequencies, percentages, and rates were calculated. Color-coded maps were created using ArcGIS to display the geographic distribution of MF injuries. From 2004 through 2012, 1,457,990 ED visits and 41,057 hospitalizations occurred as a result of MF injury in Ontario. The mean age of patients for each ED visit was 30.6 years and for each hospitalization was 52.6 years. Rates of ED visits and hospitalizations owing to MF injury show a slight decrease during the 8-year period. MF injuries were most frequent in the evening, during the weekends, and during the summer. Falls were reported as the leading cause of MF injuries. Rural areas had higher rates of ED visits and hospitalizations. This study highlighted the public health impact of MF injuries, offering policy makers important epidemiologic information, which is fundamental to formulate and optimize measures aimed at protecting Canadians from injuries that are largely predictable and preventable. Future injury prevention programs should enhance the population-based approach and focus on high-risk groups such as male youth and elderly women in low-income families.

Despite the long-held view that Latinos' value and reliance on family leads to greater involvement of extended family in caring for sick members and reduced perception of burden, some research reports low levels of social support and high levels of distress among Latino caregivers. We explore this seeming discrepancy in a qualitative study of 41 Latino caregivers of family members with Alzheimer's disease, interviewing them regarding the role of familism in their caregiving experience. For some it facilitates caregiving in the traditional, expected manner. Other caregivers disavow its current relevance. Yet others feel a contrast between familism, which they may value in a general, abstract way and more personal, immediate negative feelings they are experiencing from caregiving. We discuss these complex, multidimensional findings, the variation among caregivers, and present implications for practice, policy, and research.

Basic anthropological terminology is the first project covering terms from the domain of the social sciences under the Croatian Special Field Terminology program (Struna). Problems that have been sporadically noticed or whose existence could have been presumed during the processing of terms mainly from technical fields and sciences have finally emerged in "anthropology". The principles of the General Theory of Terminology (GTT), which are followed in Struna, were put to a truly exacting test, and sometimes stretched beyond their limits when applied to concepts that do not necessarily have references in the physical world; namely, abstract and metaphysical concepts. We are currently developing a new terminographical model based on Idealized Cognitive Models (ICM), which will hopefully ensure a better cross-filed implementation of various types of concepts and their relations. The goal of this paper is to introduce the theoretical bases of our model. Additionally, we will present a pilot study of the series of experiments in which we are trying to investigate the nature of conceptual categorization in special languages and its proposed difference form categorization in general language.

Complex systems have attracted considerable interest because of their wide range of applications, and are often studied via a "classic" approach: study a specific system, find a complex network behind it, and analyze the corresponding properties. This simple methodology has produced a great deal of interesting results, but relies on an often implicit underlying assumption: the level of detail on which the system is observed. However, in many situations, physical or abstract, the level of detail can be one out of many, and might also depend on intrinsic limitations in viewing the data with a different level of abstraction or precision. So, a fundamental question arises: do properties of a network depend on its level of observability, or are they invariant? If there is a dependence, then an apparently correct network modeling could in fact just be a bad approximation of the true behavior of a complex system. In order to answer this question, we propose a novel micro-macro analysis of complex systems that quantitatively describes how the structure of complex networks varies as a function of the detail level. To this extent, we have developed a new telescopic algorithm that abstracts from the local properties of a system and reconstructs the original structure according to a fuzziness level. This way we can study what happens when passing from a fine level of detail ("micro") to a different scale level ("macro"), and analyze the corresponding behavior in this transition, obtaining a deeper spectrum analysis. The obtained results show that many important properties are not universally invariant with respect to the level of detail, but instead strongly depend on the specific level on which a network is observed. Therefore, caution should be taken in every situation where a complex network is considered, if its context allows for different levels of observability.

Several compendiums of instruments that measure perceived racism and/or discrimination are present in the literature. Other works have reviewed the psychometric properties of these instruments in terms of validity and reliability and have indicated if the instrument was factor analyzed. However, little attention has been given to the quality of the factor analysis performed. The aim of this study was to evaluate the exploratory factor analyses done on instruments measuring perceived racism/racial discrimination using guidelines from experts in psychometric theory. The techniques used for factor analysis were reviewed and critiqued and the adequacy of reporting was evaluated. Internet search engines and four electronic abstract databases were used to identify 16 relevant instruments that met the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Principal component analysis was the most frequent method of extraction (81%). Sample sizes were adequate for factor analysis in 81 percent of studies. The majority of studies reported appropriate criteria for the acceptance of un-rotated factors (81%) and justified the rotation method (75%). Exactly 94 percent of studies reported partially acceptable criteria for the acceptance of rotated factors. The majority of articles (69%) reported adequate coefficient alphas for the resultant subscales. In 81 percent of the studies, the conceptualized dimensions were supported by factor analysis.

We have previously reported in this journal on an ecological study of perinatal depressive symptoms in South Western Sydney. In that article, we briefly reported on a factor analysis that was utilized to identify empirical indicators for analysis. In this article, we report on the mixed method approach that was used to identify those latent variables. Social epidemiology has been slow to embrace a latent variable approach to the study of social, political, economic, and cultural structures and mechanisms, partly for philosophical reasons. Critical realist ontology and epistemology have been advocated as an appropriate methodological approach to both theory building and theory testing in the health sciences. We describe here an emergent mixed method approach that uses qualitative methods to identify latent constructs followed by factor analysis using empirical indicators chosen to measure identified qualitative codes. Comparative analysis of the findings is reported together with a limited description of realist approaches to abstract reasoning.

Despite a growing body of research examining the psychosocial issues involved in oocyte donation, few studies have examined the role of information in the process of donor selection. The aim of this interview-based qualitative study was to understand how donor oocyte recipients relate to information provided about potential oocyte donors, how they use this information to select donors and their preferences for, and reactions to, various types of information provided to them. Donor oocyte recipients who underwent treatment between 1995 and 2011 were recruited for participation from an academic centre for reproductive medicine. Twenty-two oocyte donor recipients participated. Findings indicate that recipients use information to select donors who they believe would enable them to fulfill their priorities: having a healthy child and 'passing' as genetically related. Obtaining more specific information prompted a focus on donor imperfections and presented a burden of choosing. Moreover, for participants preferring distance, having more information created dilemmas by making the donors less abstract. Although more information and options are often desired by oocyte donor recipients, increased choice can also present psychological dilemmas and emotional costs. Further research is needed to investigate the influence of information-related conflicts on patient decision-making, post-treatment emotional adjustment and disclosure decisions.

Doping control is a main priority for regulatory bodies of both the horse racing industry and the equestrian sports. Urine and blood samples are screened for the presence of hundreds of forbidden substances including anabolic-androgenic steroids (AASs). Based on the suspected endogenous origin of some AASs, with β-boldenone as the most illicit candidate, this study aimed to improve the knowledge of the naturally present AAS in horse urine. To this extent, a novel ultra high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method was developed and validated according to the Association of Official Racing Chemists (AORC) and European Commission (EC) guidelines, proving the power of this new method. Low limits of detection (0.2 ng/mL), good reproducibility (percentage of standard deviation (%RSD) < 10%), high recovery (94.6 to 117.1%), selectivity and specificity, and a linear response (confirmed with R(2) > 0.99 and lack-of-fit analysis) were obtained for all included AASs. With this method, urine samples of 105 guaranteed untreated horses (47 geldings, 53 mares, and 5 stallions serving as a control) were screened for β-boldenone and five related natural steroids: androstadienedione (ADD), androstenedione (AED), alpha-testosterone (αT), beta-testosterone (βT), and progesterone (P). Progesterone, β-testosterone, and α-testosterone were detected in more than half of the horses at low concentrations (<2 ng/mL). Occasionally, not only testosterone and progesterone but also low concentrations of AED, ADD, and boldenone (Bol) were found (0.5-5 ng/mL). Graphical Abstract A sensitive, new and fully validated UHPLC-MS/MS method has been developed that is able to quantify low levels of anabolic-androgenic steroids naturally present in urine of untreated horses (mares and geldings).

This is a literature review of the supportive roles of religion and spirituality (R/S) in end-of-life (EoL) and palliative care of patients with cancer in a culturally diverse context. This review examines 26 noteworthy articles published between August 2013 and August 2014 from five well supported databases. Current evidence shows that R/S evokes in patients the sources to find the necessary inner strengths, which includes perspective thinking, rituals for transcending immediate physical condition and modalities of coping with their oncological illnesses. R/S are not a monolithically experience for they always manifest themselves in diverse cultural settings. As such, R/S provide the individual and their families with a practical context and social memory, which includes traditions and social family practices for maintaining meaning and well-being. Nonetheless, although various dimensions of R/S show a link between cancer risk factors and well being in cancer patients, more specific dimensions of R/S need to be studied taking into account the individuals' particular religious and cultural contexts, so that R/S variables within that context can provide a greater integrative structure for understanding and to move the field forward. Behavioral, cognitive and psychosocial scientists have taken a more in-depth look at the claims made in the past, suggesting that a relationship between R/S, cultural diversity and health exists. Case in point are the studies on EoL care, which have progressively considered the role of cultural, religion and spiritual diversity in the care of patients with oncological terminal illnesses. Beyond these facts, this review also shows that EoL supportive and palliative care providers could further enhance their practical interventions by being sensitive and supportive of cultural diversity. http://links.lww.com/COSPC/A10

Despite the rising prevalence of heart failure in Africa, it remains unclear what supportive and palliative care services are required to meet patient needs. This review highlights recent contributions to knowledge of the supportive and palliative care needs of heart failure patients in Africa. Multiple epidemiological studies demonstrate the population-level burden of heart failure in Africa, characterized by low levels of ischaemic heart disease and a young mean patient age. However, few studies have addressed patients' specific palliative and supportive care needs. Only one recent published study investigated the quality of life of heart failure patients in Africa, and although conference abstracts suggest more research is forthcoming, these remain scarce. For service implementation, research is again sparse, but promising recent developments, including a hospital-based palliative care service for organ failure patients and a community-based programme to diagnose and manage heart failure, present future research avenues. Despite advances in epidemiological knowledge, very little research has investigated the illness experience and multidimensional needs of individuals. Obtaining this evidence through culturally sensitive research is essential to future development and testing of new and existing palliative care services for heart failure patients in Africa. http://links.lww.com/COSPC/A9

We examine the diversity of strategies of modelling networks in (micro) economics and (analytical) sociology. Field-specific conceptions of what explaining (with) networks amounts to or systematic preference for certain kinds of explanatory factors are not sufficient to account for differences in modelling methodologies. We argue that network models in both sociology and economics are abstract models of network mechanisms and that differences in their modelling strategies derive to a large extent from field-specific conceptions of the way in which a good model should be a general one. Whereas the economics models aim at unification, the sociological models aim at a set of mechanism schemas that are extrapolatable to the extent that the underlying psychological mechanisms are general. These conceptions of generality induce specific biases in mechanistic explanation and are related to different views of when knowledge from different fields should be seen as relevant.

To assess the influence of neighbourhood immigrant concentration on cardiovascular-disease-related hospitalizations in Canada (CVDH), while adjusting for individual-level immigrant status and socio-economic indicators at individual and neighbourhood levels. Data were from the 2006 Canadian Census linked to the hospital Discharge Abstract Data (DAD) for the province of Ontario. Adults (n=1,459,950) aged ≥18 years at baseline and grouped by place of birth (Canada, China, South Asia, Europe, and other) were followed between Census Day May 16, 2006 and March 31, 2008. Information on CVDH was obtained from the DAD, while that on immigration and socio-economic indicators was obtained from the Census. The analysis used multilevel logistic regression. Unadjusted results showed that CVDH was significantly lower among people living in neighbourhoods with medium and high immigrant concentration. Neighbourhood immigrant concentration tended to have no independent effect on CVDH after adjustment for individual-level immigrant status. Immigrants were less likely to experience CVDH irrespective of their country of birth. However, cross-level interaction showed that neighbourhood immigrant concentration provided additional protection to individual-level immigrant status against CVDH for most female immigrant groups, but only for South Asian males. This study resulted from the first-ever linkage of census data to hospitalization data in Canada. It is also the first Canadian study to report on neighbourhood variation and the effect of immigrant concentration on CVDH. The study shows that understanding immigrant health requires both individual and neighbourhood approaches, and a consideration of country of origin.

The aim of this study was to identify common factors relating to the academic success of medical students who were distinguished with honors at the Buenos Aires University. In 2011, 142 graduates were surveyed; the questionnaire included 59 questions on their sociodemographic environment, living conditions and social integration, motivation to study, learning capacity and health quality during their career. Compared to other students, these distinguished students more often lived in the city, far from their families; had been educated at private or universitary high schools, their economic needs were financed by their parents, who were on the whole professionals. Most of them were single and childless. The possibility of future employment oportunities (work) did not influence their choice of a medical career, academic success was important to them and they believed that success depended largely on personal effort; they knew how to handle anxiety, were sociable but independent and preferred solid experience to abstract conceptuality in order to obtain information. Our conclusion, within the current system of candidate selection, these results serve to calculate the covert self-selection mechanisms during the career, or in a more restrictive regime, to select those likely to reach academic success due to their privileged ambience. The analysis of demographic factors indicates some degree of inequality for socially disadvantaged students. Perhaps, a selection system based only on intellectual abilities would help identify and support the best candidates regardless of their social context.

The development of new fibrilar materials based on electrospinning (ES) technique has a notable history of nearly four centuries of discoveries and results. The eletrospinning manufacturing is one of the most widely reported methods for nanofiber (NF) manufacturing, providing security, high quality and productivity. In spite of the first patent about electrospinning has been applied in April 5(th), 1900 by John Francis Cooley, a historical perspective (since 1600s) about this amazing discovery represents an important step for future applications. Nanofibers have been considered one of the top interesting fundamental study objects for academicians, and greatest intriguing business materials for modern industry. As a consequence, lucrative organizations and companies have explored the relevance of nanofibers. In this paper, the quantity of published manuscripts and patent inventions is presented and the correlation of research activities to the production of new electrospinning materials is shown. China and the United States have been leading in electrospinning and nanofibers development. The company triumph is mostly dependent on applications improvement relevant for broader business society. A dramatic rise of interest in nanofibers produced by electrospinning technique has been confirmed due to the publication data, author's affiliation, keywords, and essential characterization procedures. Is has been shown that the number of publications on electrospinning and nanofibers researches from academic institutions is higher than industrial laboratories. More than 1,891 patents using the term "electrospinning" and 2,960 with the term "nanofibers" according to the European Patent Office at title or abstract have been filed around the world up to 2013. These numbers just continue to increase along with worldwide ES-related sales. Curiously, for the same period 11,973 electrospinning documents and 18,679 nanofibers-related (mainly manuscripts) were published considering the Scopus database with the same terms in the title, abstract or using keywords. Thus, statistically, there are more published manuscripts worldwide than patents for both keywords.

Abstract Background: Little is known about which diversity characteristics if any, impact on nursing students' clinical placements or how these may affect the quality of their learning experiences. There is therefore a need to better understand these effects not only from the student's perspective but also from the perspective of the staff who supervise them, in order to ensure students obtain maximal benefit from their placements. To describe the clinical experiences of nursing students and the diversity characteristics that affect this learning experience. Data were collected from a series of open-ended questions embedded within a larger anonymous web-based survey, from August 2011 to March 2012. Participants included first, second and third year undergraduate Bachelor of Nursing students (N = 704) and faculty members involved in the clinical learning environment (N = 165) from seven Australian universities. Qualitative findings were clustered into three main themes: differences, difficulty and discrimination, each with three sub-themes. FINDINGS suggest a need to offer appropriate support for nursing students who feel different because of diversity characteristics. Whilst some of the participant perceptions are confronting they provide valuable insights for universities developing curricula and the clinical placement facilities where students obtain their experience.

Abstract Aim: To summarise and critique the research literature about whistleblowing and nurses. Whistleblowing is identified as a crucial issue in maintenance of healthcare standards and nurses are frequently involved in whistleblowing events. Despite the importance of this issue, to our knowledge an evaluation of this body of the data-based literature has not been undertaken. An integrative literature review approach was used to summarise and critique the research literature. A comprehensive search of five databases including Medline, CINAHL, PubMed and Health Science: Nursing/Academic Edition, and Google, were searched using terms including: 'Whistleblow*,' 'nurs*.' In addition, relevant journals were examined, as well as reference lists of retrieved papers. Papers published during the years 2007-2013 were selected for inclusion. Fifteen papers were identified, capturing data from nurses in seven countries. The findings in this review demonstrate a growing body of research for the nursing profession at large to engage and respond appropriately to issues involving suboptimal patient care or organisational wrongdoing. Nursing plays a key role in maintaining practice standards and in reporting care that is unacceptable although the repercussions to nurses who raise concerns are insupportable. Overall, whistleblowing and how it influences the individual, their family, work colleagues, nursing practice and policy overall, requires further national and international research attention.

Abstract This paper presents the findings of a study that interviewed Aboriginal nurses to explore their experiences of the whiteness of nursing. Despite concerted efforts to improve the health of Aboriginal Australians, it still remains equivalent to third world countries. One strategy identified to address this is to increase the participation rates of Aboriginal registered nurses within the Australian healthcare workforce. Presently Aboriginal nurses account for only a small percentage of the nursing workforce. While there has been research into the recruitment and retention strategies dedicated to improving the numbers of Aboriginal registered nurses, this paper focus on the experiences of Aboriginal registered nurses within Australia's mainstream healthcare system, where they are exposed and subjected on a daily basis to the 'whiteness of nursing.'

Abstract Background: Understanding the reasons and consequences of leadership styles in ethical dilemmas is fundamental to exploring nurse managers' abilities to influence outcomes for patients and nursing personnel. To explain the associations between different leadership styles, reasons for their application and its consequences when nurse managers make decisions in ethical dilemmas. The data were collected between 15 October 2011 and 30 April 2012 by statistically validated questionnaire. The respondents (N = 278) were nurse managers. The data were analysed using SPSS 20.0, calculating Spearman's correlations, the Stepwise Regression and ANOVA. The reasons for applying different leadership styles in ethical dilemmas include personal characteristics, years in work position, institutional factors, and the professional authority of nurse managers. The applied leadership styles in ethical dilemmas are associated with the consequences regarding the satisfaction of patients,' relatives' and nurse managers' needs. Nurse managers exhibited leadership styles oriented to maintenance, focussing more on the 'doing the job' than on managing the decision-making in ethical dilemmas.

Abstract It is well recognized that nurse-leader-managers play an important role in facilitating the quality and nature of hospital care, the improvement of work performance and work satisfaction. In the United Arab Emirates they face the additional challenge of working within a context of significant linguistic and cultural diversity where leadership in the provision of culturally competent care is a major requirement. With this goal at the fore, a sample of 153 nurse-leader-managers, including matrons, nursing directors, supervisors, nurses-in-charge and in-service education staff from 4 private and 6 government hospitals completed the multifactor leadership questionnaire (Bass & Avolio, 2004). The survey also explored participants' perceptions of the characteristics of good leaders and what they needed to do in their particular work place to enhance culturally competent care. The results showed nurse-leader-managers used both transformational and transactional leadership attributes but in different combinations across the two hospital types.

Abstract  

Abstract presentations at scientific congresses are a preparation for publication in peer reviewed journals. The present study aimed to investigate the prediction of abstract acceptance of peer reviewed publications focusing on the difference between male and female first authors. We evaluated 8411 abstracts submitted to the German Cardiac Society by 2090 females and 6321 male scientists. Abstract grading (3 to 9 reviewers, blinded on a 5-point scale) separated those accepted and rejected followed by a bibliometric analysis of Medline publications from 2006 to 2012. While rating of abstracts was not different between males and females (p=0.475), publication rate of females was lower compared to males (17.5% vs 24.4 ≥%, p<0.001). Female authors achieved a higher impact factor in their publications (5.1 ± 0.2 vs 4.4 ± 0.1, p=0.0003) and were more often listed on papers in highly ranked journals (impact factor ≥ 5) than males. Although, more accepted abstracts than rejected ones were published in high rank journals, a considerable number of papers were generated from rejected abstracts (22%). Female cardiologists had a better publication success than males concerning high rank peer reviewed publications. Acceptance in blinded abstract evaluation often detects work published later, while rejected contributions still might represent high quality work suitable for publication in peer reviewed journals.

The term "cultural recycling" derives from the neuronal recycling hypothesis, which suggests that representations of cultural inventions like written words, Arabic numbers, or tools can occupy brain areas dedicated to other functions. In the present selective review article, we propose a recycling hypothesis for the ideomotor mechanism. The ideomotor approach assumes that motor actions are controlled by the anticipation of the expected perceptual consequences that they aim to generate in the environment. Arguably, such action-perception mechanisms contribute to motor behaviour for human and non-human animals since millions of years. However, recent empirical studies suggest that the ideomotor mechanism can also contribute to word processing, number representation, and arithmetic. For instance, it has been shown that the anticipatory simulation of abstract semantics, like the numerical quantitative value of three items can prime processing of the associated Arabic number "3". Arabic numbers, words, or tools represent cultural inventions, so that, from a theoretical perspective, we suggest an ideomotor recycling hypothesis for the interaction with such artefacts. In this view, the ideomotor mechanism spreads its influence to other functions beyond motor control, and is recycled to flexibly adapt different human behaviours towards dealing with more abstract concepts.

The global economic impact of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) on household expenditures and poverty indicators remains less well understood. To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature evaluating the global economic impact of six NCDs [including coronary heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), cancer (lung, colon, cervical and breast), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD)] on households and impoverishment. Medline, Embase and Google Scholar databases were searched from inception to November 6th 2014. To identify additional publications, reference lists of retrieved studies were searched. Randomized controlled trials, systematic reviews, cohorts, case-control, cross-sectional, modeling and ecological studies carried out in adults and assessing the economic consequences of NCDs on households and impoverishment. No language restrictions. All abstract and full text selection was done by two independent reviewers. Data were extracted by two independent reviewers and checked by a third independent reviewer. Studies were included evaluating the impact of at least one of the selected NCDs and on at least one of the following measures: expenditure on medication, transport, co-morbidities, out-of-pocket (OOP) payments or other indirect costs; impoverishment, poverty line and catastrophic spending; household or individual financial cost. From 3,241 references, 64 studies met the inclusion criteria, 75% of which originated from the Americas and Western Pacific WHO region. Breast cancer and DM were the most studied NCDs (42 in total); CKD and COPD were the least represented (five and three studies respectively). OOP payments and financial catastrophe, mostly defined as OOP exceeding a certain proportion of household income, were the most studied outcomes. OOP expenditure as a proportion of family income, ranged between 2 and 158% across the different NCDs and countries. Financial catastrophe due to the selected NCDs was seen in all countries and at all income levels, and occurred in 6-84% of the households depending on the chosen catastrophe threshold. In 16 low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), 6-11% of the total population would be impoverished at a 1.25 US dollar/day poverty line if they would have to purchase lowest price generic diabetes medication. NCDs impose a large and growing global impact on households and impoverishment, in all continents and levels of income. The true extent, however, remains difficult to determine due to the heterogeneity across existing studies in terms of populations studied, outcomes reported and measures employed. The impact that NCDs exert on households and impoverishment is likely to be underestimated since important economic domains, such as coping strategies and the inclusion of marginalized and vulnerable people who do not seek health care due to financial reasons, are overlooked in literature. Given the scarcity of information on specific regions, further research to estimate impact of NCDs on households and impoverishment in LMIC, especially the Middle Eastern, African and Latin American regions is required.

Adoption of electronic health record systems has increased the availability of patient-level electronic health information. To examine public support for secondary uses of electronic health information under different consent arrangements. National experimental survey to examine perceptions of uses of electronic health information according to patient consent (obtained vs. not obtained), use (research vs. marketing), and framing of the findings (abstract description without results vs. specific results). Nationally representative survey. 3064 African American, Hispanic, and non-Hispanic white persons (response rate, 65%). Appropriateness of health information use described in vignettes on a scale of 1 (not at all appropriate) to 10 (very appropriate). Mean ratings ranged from a low of 3.81 for a marketing use when consent was not obtained and specific results were presented to a high of 7.06 for a research use when consent was obtained and specific results were presented. Participants rated scenarios in which consent was obtained as more appropriate than when consent was not obtained (difference, 1.01 [95% CI, 0.69 to 1.34]; P<0.001). Participants rated scenarios in which the use was marketing as less appropriate than when the use was research (difference, -2.03 [CI, -2.27 to -1.78]; P<0.001). Unconsented research uses were rated as more appropriate than consented marketing uses (5.65 vs. 4.52; difference, 1.13 [CI, 0.87 to 1.39]). Participants rated hypothetical scenarios. Results could be vulnerable to nonresponse bias despite the high response rate. Although approaches to health information sharing emphasize consent, public opinion also emphasizes purpose, which suggests a need to focus more attention on the social value of information use. National Human Genome Research Institute.

The global burden of cardiovascular mortality is increasing, as is the number of large-scale humanitarian emergencies. The interaction between these phenomena is not well understood. This review aims to clarify the relationship between humanitarian emergencies and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. With assistance from a research librarian, electronic databases (PubMed, Scopus, CINAHL, and Global Health) were searched in January 2014. Findings were supplemented by reviewing citations of included trials. Observational studies reporting the effect of natural disasters and conflict events on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in adults since 1997 were included. Studies without a comparison group were not included. Double-data extraction was utilized to abstract information on acute coronary syndrome (ACS), acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF), and sudden cardiac death (SCD). Review Manager 5.0 (Version 5.2, The Nordic Cochrane Centre; Copenhagen Denmark,) was used to create figures for qualitative synthesis. The search retrieved 1,697 unique records; 24 studies were included (17 studies of natural disasters and seven studies of conflict). These studies involved 14,583 cardiac events. All studies utilized retrospective designs: four were population-based, 15 were single-center, and five were multicenter studies. Twenty-three studies utilized historical controls in the primary analysis, and one utilized primarily geographical controls. Conflicts are associated with an increase in long-term morbidity from ACS; the short-term effects of conflict vary by study. Natural disasters exhibit heterogeneous effects, including increased occurrence of ACS, ADHF, and SCD. In certain settings, humanitarian emergencies are associated with increased cardiac morbidity and mortality that may persist for years following the event. Humanitarian aid organizations should consider morbidity from noncommunicable disease when planning relief and recuperation projects.

This study examined juvenile justice-involved youths' understanding and appreciation of the Miranda warnings' rights to silence and legal counsel using the Miranda Rights Comprehension Instruments (Goldstein, Zelle, & Grisso, 2012). It also examined the relationships between totality of circumstances factors and understanding and appreciation of rights. Data were collected from 183 youths (140 boys) in pre- and postadjudication facilities in 2 states. Overall, youths demonstrated greater difficulty on measures of appreciation than understanding, with particular deficits in their abilities to comprehend the abstract concept of the right to silence. Results varied slightly by instrument, highlighting the importance of a multimodal assessment of these complex abilities. Examination of totality of circumstances factors identified relationships between some factors (e.g., age, verbal IQ, academic achievement) and Miranda comprehension, but revealed that other factors (e.g., gender, number of previous arrests) were not significantly related to Miranda understanding or appreciation. The findings support a nuanced conceptualization of Miranda rights comprehension that acknowledges the complexity of understanding and appreciating the warnings. Empirical analyses also support the continued use of some totality of circumstances factors and abandonment of others. Findings underscore the necessity of multimodal assessment and interpretation when conducting capacity to waive Miranda rights evaluations.

Resilience is a ubiquitous term in disaster risk management and is an increasingly prominent concept in early discussions focused on elaborating the post-2015 international policy landscape. Riddled with competing meanings and diverse policy implications, however, it is a concept caught between the abstract and operational. This paper provides a review of the rise to prominence of the concept of resilience and advances an elaboration of the related concepts of resistance, incremental adjustment and transformation. We argue that these concepts can contribute to decision-making by offering three distinct options for risk management policy. In order to deliberately and effectively choose among these options, we suggest that critical reflexivity is a prerequisite, necessitating improved decision-making capacity if varied perspectives (including those of the most vulnerable) are to be involved in the selection of the best approach to risk management.

This extended abstract addresses the preliminary results of applying uncertainty handling strategies and advanced control techniques to the inventary management of hospitality pharmacy. Inventory management is one of the main tasks that a pharmacy department has to carry out in a hospital. It is a complex problem because it requires to establish a tradeoff between contradictory optimization criteria. The final goal of the proposed research is to update the inventory management system of hospitals such that it is possible to reduce the average inventory while maintaining preestablished clinical guarantees.

We performed a population-based study to analyze the trends, associations, and outcomes of laparoscopic appendectomy (LA) in the Canadian universal health care setting. Children younger than 18years coded for urgent appendectomy in the discharge abstract database of the Canadian Institute of Health Information during 2004-2010 were analyzed. The Cochran-Armitage test, logistic regression, and quintile regression were used to perform the necessary analyses. 41,405 children were studied. LA incidence steadily increased from 28.8% to 66.4%, p<.0001. Conversion rates significantly decreased, while LA for perforated appendicitis significantly increased. LA occurred significantly less in younger patients [OR 0.24 (<5years), OR 0.45 (6-11 years)], males [OR 0.79], and operations by a general surgeon [OR 0.33]. Rural domicile, socioeconomic status, and hospital type had no effect. LA decreased hospital stay for simple appendicitis by one day beginning in 2006, and by variable durations for perforated appendicitis throughout the study period. The incidence of LA in Canada has more than doubled. Older children, females, and patients treated by pediatric surgeons are more likely to receive LA, while domicile, socioeconomic status, and hospital type have no effect. LA reduced hospital stay for both simple and perforated appendicitis.

Women with heart failure (HF) have been underrepresented in research. The aim of this study was to determine participation of women in HF research by evaluating research studies published in 2013 in 11 peer-reviewed journals. Titles, abstracts, and full publications were reviewed to determine if studies met eligibility criteria and to abstract data. Data analysis was completed using means, standard deviations, quartiles, and Pearson correlation coefficients. A total of 264 studies met eligibility criteria and were reviewed. Mean percentage of women was 32% across 129 studies that used original data sources and 34% across 135 studies that used existing data sources. Median percentage of women was 29% across studies using original and existing data sources. Current data from studies published in 2013 support that women continue to be underrepresented in HF studies. Further research may provide insights to better understand the experiences, needs, and outcomes of women with HF.

Abstract Increasing cultural diversity and a sense of global community has necessitated the introduction of cultural competence in the education of health care providers. Some institutions have utilised cultural immersion programmes to address this need of cultural competence. Studies have not yet described what this experience is for Australian nursing students. The purpose of this study is to describe the immersion experience of a group of senior Australian nursing students who participated in a 5-week cultural immersion programme in India.

Abstract Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (ATSI) people experience challenges when accessing health care from the emergency department (ED). The aim of this project was to identify the perceived barriers and enablers to accessing health care at one Victorian Emergency Department for the local ATSI community. This qualitative explorative study collected data using focus groups or yarns to investigate the perceptions of the ATSI community presentations to the ED. Data were analysed following the standards of qualitative data analysis procedure. Three themes emerged organisational process, staff interactions and strategies for improvement. Information from this study will assist hospital and ED executives and practitioners to collaborate with the ATSI community in developing and implementing policy and practice changes that enable Aboriginal patients to be identified and receive culturally appropriate care.

Clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) and consensus statements (CSs) are used to apply evidence-based medicine or expert recommendations to clinical practice. Here we explore author financial conflicts of interest (FCOIs), sources of guideline funding, and their relationship with endorsement of specific drugs. An electronic search of MEDLINE was conducted to identify CPGs and CSs for common solid cancers published between January 2003 and October 2013. The search was restricted to articles evaluating systemic therapy. We extracted data on self-reported author FCOIs, funding sources, use of manuscript writers, and endorsement of specific drugs in the abstract of the article. Of 142 articles evaluated, 64% were CPGs, and 36% were CSs. The proportion of articles reporting FCOIs improved from 11% in 2003 to 93% in 2013 (P for trend < .001). Only 45% of articles explicitly reported funding sources. Of these, 65% disclosed partial or full industry sponsorship. Use of manuscript writers was declared in 13%, but many articles did not explicitly report the role of authors in the writing of the manuscript. Endorsement of specific drugs was significantly associated with author FCOIs (odds ratio [OR], 7.29; P = .001), but not with industry funding (OR, 0.95; P = .37). Reporting of FCOIs in CPGs and CSs has improved over time. Despite prevalent funding of guideline development by industry, such funding is not associated with endorsement of specific drugs. Author FCOIs are prevalent, and endorsement of a specific drug seems to be more common when authors have FCOIs with the pharmaceutical company marketing that drug.

Abstract Purpose: A number of studies report neurological and cognitive deficits and behavioural disorders in children after surgical treatment for a benign cerebellar tumour. The present study explores functional outcome in adolescents and adults treated for a low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma in childhood. Participants were 18 adolescents and 46 adults treated for low-grade astrocytoma in childhood. Academic achievement, professional status and neurological, cognitive and behavioural disturbances were collected using self-completed and parental questionnaires for adolescents and phone interview for adults. For the adolescent group, a control group filled in the same questionnaires. Mean time lapse from surgery was 7.8 years for adolescents and 12.9 years for adults. Five adults (11%) had major sequelae related to post-operative complications, post-operative mutism and/or brain stem involvement. All the other participants presented close-to-normal academic achievement and normal autonomy, despite a high rate of reported cognitive difficulties and difficulties related to mild neurological sequelae (fine motor skills, balance). The long-term functional outcome of low-grade cerebellar astrocytoma is generally favourable, in the absence of post-operative complications and brain stem involvement. No major impact of neurological deficits, cognitive problems and emotional disorders on academic achievement and independent functioning was observed.

So that resources and manpower are allocated in a way of most benefit to the population, systematic review of available evidence on the effectiveness of programmes and interventions is required. To assess the quality of evidence presented in studies carried out to investigate the effectiveness of oral health education in children. The MEDLINE (PubMed) bibliographic database was searched for English-language articles published from 2005 to 2011. Fifty-five articles were identified by the literature search, and the relevance of each article was determined by examining the title and the abstract. Sixteen original research studies met the inclusion criteria. These articles were read in full and scored independently by two reviewers, with scoring based on predetermined criteria. Articles scoring less than 10 were excluded from the study. For each paper that achieved a validity score of more than 10 (n = 11), data concerning the objectives of the intervention, the types and numbers of participants and the outcomes were extracted from the article. Considering the absence of homogeneity among the articles (as a result of variation in the age of subjects, type of intervention and outcome measures) quantitative analysis was not conducted. The publications were grouped based on their outcome measures: (i) plaque and gingival health; (ii) caries incidence; (iii) knowledge, attitude and oral health-related behaviour; and (iv) toothbrushing skills. The results of this analysis suggest that further efforts are required to synthesise, systematically, current information about dental health education, along with the maintenance of rigorous scientific standards in research.

Seniors constitute the largest group of hospital users. The increasing share of immigrants in Canada's senior population can affect the demand for hospital care. This study used the linked 2006 Census-Hospital Discharge Abstract Database to examine hospitalization during the 2004-to-2006 period, by immigrant status, of Ontario seniors living in the community. Hospitalization was assessed with logistic regressions; cumulative length of stay, with zero-truncated negative binomial regressions. All-cause hospitalization and hospitalizations specific to circulatory and digestive diseases were examined. Immigrant seniors had significantly low age-/sex-adjusted odds of hospitalization, compared with Canadian-born seniors (OR = 0.81). The odds varied from 0.4 among East Asians to 0.89 among Europeans, and rose with length of time since arrival from 0.54 for recent (1994 to 2003) to 0.86 for long-term (before 1984) immigrants. Adjustment for demographic and socio-economic characteristics did not change the overall patterns. Immigrants' cumulated length of hospital stay tended to be shorter than or similar to that of Canadian-born seniors. Immigrant seniors, especially recent arrivals, had lower odds of hospitalization and similar time in hospital, compared with Canadian-born seniors. These patterns likely reflect differences in health status. Variations by world region and disease reflect the diverse health care needs of immigrant seniors.

This study compares registry and non-registry approaches to linking 2006 Census of Population data for Manitoba and Ontario to hospital data from the Discharge Abstract Database (DAD). Using a probabilistic linkage, the registry approach linked the census data to provincial health insurance registries, followed by a deterministic linkage to the DAD based on health insurance number (HIN). The non-registry approach used hierarchical deterministic exact matching based on three variables common to both files to link census data to the DAD. The approaches were compared in terms of linkage and coverage rates, sensitivity and specificity, and consistency of HINs on the linked records. Results of the registry and non-registry linkage approaches were similar. In Manitoba, 7% and 6% of census long-form respondents linked to the DAD with the registry and non-registry linkage approaches, respectively; in Ontario, the linkage rate was 5% for both approaches. With the registry approach, the linked census-DAD data represented 84% (weighted) of hospital admissions in the 2006/2007 DAD in both provinces, compared with 82% in Manitoba and Ontario with the non-registry approach. In the absence of access to provincial health insurance registries with which census data can be linked, a non-registry approach can be used to create a research-quality dataset.

Despite staggering investments made in unraveling the human genome, current estimates suggest that as much as 90% of the variance in cancer and chronic diseases can be attributed to factors outside an individual's genetic endowment, particularly to environmental exposures experienced across his or her life course. New analytical approaches are clearly required as investigators turn to complicated systems theory and ecological, place-based and life-history perspectives in order to understand more clearly the relationships between social determinants, environmental exposures and health disparities. While traditional data analysis techniques remain foundational to health disparities research, they are easily overwhelmed by the ever-increasing size and heterogeneity of available data needed to illuminate latent gene x environment interactions. This has prompted the adaptation and application of scalable combinatorial methods, many from genome science research, to the study of population health. Most of these powerful tools are algorithmically sophisticated, highly automated and mathematically abstract. Their utility motivates the main theme of this paper, which is to describe real applications of innovative transdisciplinary models and analyses in an effort to help move the research community closer toward identifying the causal mechanisms and associated environmental contexts underlying health disparities. The public health exposome is used as a contemporary focus for addressing the complex nature of this subject.

In a prospective longitudinal study, we investigated the outcomes of children born to mothers clinically referred for mental health problems during pregnancy (risk group, n = 17) relative to a control group (n = 31). Child cognitive functioning, and for subgroups (n = 10 + 17), brain morphometry as derived from Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), was measured at 4½ years. Cognitive data included abstract visuospatial reasoning/problem solving and verbal scores. Subcortical regions of interest included the amygdala, accumbens area, hippocampus, caudate and putamen, chosen because their development seems potentially sensitive to an adverse intrauterine milieu and environmental experiences, and also due to their implication in cognitive and emotional processes. The risk group exhibited poorer abstract reasoning scores than the control group. No differences were found for verbal scores. MRI revealed smaller putamen volume in children in the risk group. Irrespective of group, putamen volume was positively related to visuospatial reasoning performance. Our results suggest that maternal psychopathology may be associated with child putamen development, nonverbal reasoning and problem solving skills.

In September 2012 the United Nations (UN) initiated a process that would extend and enhance the unfinished agenda of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), integrating a new vision for sustainable development beyond the year 2015. The initial consultation phase has been completed, with the UN and partner organizations undertaking eleven thematic consultations, including one on health. It is in this context that the European Commission (EC) has tasked the research consortium Goals and Governance for Global Health (Go4Health) with providing recommendations for the post-2015 health-related development goals and including voices that are routinely excluded from health-related decision-making processes. This has not been an easy task. It has led us to question how to define marginalization, how to access marginalized communities, as well as how community members could provide informed consent. The context of the communities we worked with was far removed from the reality of the post-2015 debates, where the MDGs and the new goals are remote and abstract, and where the promise of immediate benefit from participation could not be assured. Given the social, historical, cultural, ethnic and geographical diversity of our chosen community partners, and the diversity of their lived experiences, could their unique situations be generalized in ways that could influence the global debate? In this special issue, we have tried to explore the uniqueness and the commonalities of the issues and barriers that marginalized communities face all over the globe, and present them in individual papers that, together, provide a nuanced and complex picture of the challenges that face the post-2015 health-related agenda setting-process.

Investigations of brain maturation processes are a key step to understand the cognitive and emotional changes of adolescence. Although structural imaging findings have delineated clear brain developmental trajectories for typically developing individuals, less is known about the functional changes of this sensitive development period. Developmental changes, such as abstract thought, complex reasoning, and emotional and inhibitory control, have been associated with more prominent cortical control. The aim of this study is to assess brain networks connectivity changes in a large sample of 7- to 15-year-old subjects, testing the hypothesis that cortical regions will present an increasing relevance in commanding the global network. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were collected in a sample of 447 typically developing children from a Brazilian community sample who were submitted to a resting state acquisition protocol. The fMRI data were used to build a functional weighted graph from which eigenvector centrality (EVC) was extracted. For each brain region (a node of the graph), the age-dependent effect on EVC was statistically tested and the developmental trajectories were estimated using polynomial functions. Our findings show that angular gyrus become more central during this maturation period, while the caudate; cerebellar tonsils, pyramis, thalamus; fusiform, parahippocampal and inferior semilunar lobe become less central. In conclusion, we report a novel finding of an increasing centrality of the angular gyrus during the transition to adolescence, with a decreasing centrality of many subcortical and cerebellar regions.

Evidence from economic evaluations is often not used to inform healthcare policy despite being well regarded by policy makers and physicians. This article employs the accessibility and acceptability framework to review the barriers to using evidence from economic evaluation in healthcare policy and the strategies used to overcome these barriers. Economic evaluations are often inaccessible to policymakers due to the absence of relevant economic evaluations, the time and cost required to conduct and interpret economic evaluations, and lack of expertise to evaluate quality and interpret results. Consistently reported factors that limit the translation of findings from economic evaluations into healthcare policy include poor quality of research informing economic evaluations, assumptions used in economic modelling, conflicts of interest, difficulties in transferring resources between sectors, negative attitudes to healthcare rationing, and the absence of equity considerations. Strategies to overcome these barriers have been suggested in the literature, including training, structured abstract databases, rapid evaluation, reporting checklists for journals, and considering factors other than cost effectiveness in economic evaluations, such as equity or budget impact. The factors that prevent or encourage decision makers to use evidence from economic evaluations have been identified, but the relative importance of these factors to decision makers is uncertain.

A dimension of the culture in group homes is staff regard for residents. In underperforming group homes, staff regard residents as being not 'like us' (Bigby, Knox, Beadle-Brown, Clement & Mansell, 2012). We hypothesized the opposite pole of this dimension, in higher performing group homes, would be that staff regard residents positively. Three in-depth qualitative case studies were conducted in higher performing group homes using participant observation, interviews and document review. Consistent pattern of staff practices and talk, as well as artefacts, demonstrated staff had a positive regard for residents, who were seen as being 'like us'. Explicit and continuing attention was given to sustaining positive regard for residents in everyday staff practices and to turning abstract values into concrete realities. This positive cultural norm was established, operationalized and embedded through structures, such as a formal policy about language, and processes such as peer monitoring and practice leadership.

This paper explores how the ideal birth was constructed after World War Two, noting in particular the abstract enthusiasm on the part of physicians and government advocates for technological innovation accompanied by simultaneous silence regarding the specificities of labour and delivery in advice literature. The relationship of prescriptive mothering to the nascent medical ideology of prevention-oriented surveillance had a direct impact on the disembodying of women in the birthing process. Both vaginal and surgical childbirth were kept firmly within the realm of medical expertise, painting parturition as something that happened to women, rather than something they did themselves.

Abstract This paper aims to elucidate the current status of nursing in Southern Jordan, and to identify strategies that would enable improvement in nursing within that region. A qualitative study using key informant focussed interviews was conducted in the south of Jordan during the first half of 2010. Purposeful sampling was used until saturation of the data occurred. This required involvement of eight informants in the study, drawn from various health institutions in the southern region. Major issues that affect the nursing profession in the region were identified through thematic analysis. Themes emerging included cultural issues, geographic isolation, sustainability and turnover of professional nurses, continuing professional development, and strategies for improvement. Future action to improve the status and position of the nursing profession is warranted in this region. Enhancing general conditions of employment may serve to attract and retain nursing staff. Incentives for them to live and practice in southern Jordan are needed. Nurses from the local community should be encouraged to pursue postgraduate study.

Abstract This study aimed to identify the factors influencing Korean mothers' intentions to vaccinate their daughters against human papillomavirus (HPV). In Korea, a mother's will is a key determinant for daughters receiving the cervical cancer vaccine. The factors influencing mothers' intentions to vaccinate their daughters against HPV were the perceived benefits of the vaccine, having acquaintances with cervical cancer experiences, awareness of the cervical cancer vaccine, believing that one's daughter needs regular Pap smears, and occupation; these variables explained 32% of the variance. The perceived benefits of the vaccine were the strongest predictor of mothers' intentions. The findings of the current study suggested that mothers' perceived benefits about the HPV vaccine play an important role in their choice to vaccinate their daughters.

Abstract Background: Stroke survivors have residual neurological impairment, which requires long-term support and care. In this situation family involvement in care process is necessary. However, as the family caregivers of stroke survivors are not necessarily supported by the health-care professionals, and they often feel inadequately prepared to deal with the physical, cognitive and emotional needs of the stroke survivors. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of a family-centered care program on stroke patients' adherence to their therapeutic regimens. This is a posttest-only randomized controlled trial study, conducted on stroke patients and their family caregivers. The control group (N = 30) received only routine hospital services and the experimental group (N = 30) received routine hospital services plus a family-centered care program consisting of four steps; need assessment, educating families based on patients' needs, follow-ups by short phone interviews, and referral service. The data were collected via a demographic data form and 'Adherence to the Therapeutic Regimens (ATR)' questionnaire between July 2011 and March 2012 and lasted 2 months for each subject. Data were assessed and analyzed with SPSS version 18. Study findings showed that the levels of adherence to the different components of the therapeutic regimens, including rehabilitations, medications and dietary regimen are significantly higher in the experimental group compared to the control group (P < 0.001). By empowering patients' families and improving their ATRs, family-centered care programs will be able to play an important role in management of physical and mental health of stroke patients.

Abstract School-Based Youth Health Nurses (SBYHNs) work in Queensland high schools, providing sexual and reproductive health care/advice (amongst other things) to adolescents. SBYHNs are often responsible for referring high school students to other health care practitioners or external health services/community agencies. One of the difficulties faced in this context is how to assess the issue of capacity in terms of the adolescent's ability to provide consent to his or her own health care without parental involvement. This is important because it enables SBYHNs to maintain confidentiality with adolescents, which encourages adolescents to obtain sexual health advice. In this paper we outline the key legal principles relevant to nurses working in this field. We provide some practical examples of issues faced by SBYHNs and consider how the issue of Gillick competency is relevant to these examples. We demonstrate that the law seeks to prioritise the concept of confidentiality and aims to avoid exposing adolescents to harm that may result from unsafe sexual practices. Importantly, the issues discussed in this paper are relevant to nurses working within this field in all Australian jurisdictions.

No abstract

Abstract Despite change toward more individualized support, group homes are likely to remain for people with severe intellectual disability. As such, the search continues for ways to determine and maintain the quality of these settings. This article draws on in-depth qualitative analysis of participant observations conducted over 9-12 months in seven group homes for 21 people with a severe and profound level of intellectual disability. It explores the conceptualization of good outcomes and support for this group in terms of their quality of life and staff practices. The qualitative indicators of good outcomes for this group using quality of life domains can be used by auditors, community visitors, funders, advocates, or family members to guide observation and judgements about group homes.

This work sought to identify the most important needs for family members of adult critical patients as described in the literature pursuant to the dimensions established in the "Critical Care Family Needs Inventory" (CCFNI) by Molter and Leske. A literature review was carried out by using the CCFNI instrument. The databases used were: Pubmed, CINAHL, Proquest Nursing & Allied Health Source, Proquest Psychology Journals, LILACS, Science Direct, Ovid SP, PsyicINFO, and SciELO. The following limitations for the search were identified: adult patients, articles in English and Spanish, with abstract and complete text available and which had been published from 2003 to June 2013; 15 articles were included. The family's hope on desired results and sincere communication with the healthcare staff turned out to be the most relevant needs, while the least important were related to comfort and having support structures or systems. Most of the studies were conducted in Asia and North America revealing differences in the order of importance assigned to each necessity. Certain sociodemographic and cultural characteristics impact upon how family members rank their needs; this also occurs with the nature of the most important needs for the family and the factors determining their prioritization. The articles included in this review mention the frequent interaction with the family and their holistic view of the person beyond the illness, determine that nurses are the most appropriate professionals to know and satisfy the family needs of critical patients.

Abstract Background: Public perception of the link between schizophrenia and violence is exaggerated, and interventions are emerging that attempt to educate the public about the actual relationship between violence and schizophrenia. The effectiveness of programs targeting this dangerousness stereotype is unknown, however, as existing instruments do not capture a complete, unbiased picture of stigma. To report on the properties of the Brief Implicit Association Test-Schizophrenia Danger (BIAT-SD), which we developed to capture the implicit perception that people with schizophrenia are dangerous. We used a multi-trait, multi-method protocol to validate the BIAT-SD based on convergent and discriminant data from undergraduates (n = 97) at baseline and 4-weeks. Preliminary evidence was found for construct validity, internal consistency, and 30-min retest stability. Potential benefits and implications of the measure to improving the accuracy of stigma measurement are discussed.

To examine the quality and completeness of information on caesarean section in web pages used by laypersons in Brazil, a country with very high rates of caesarean delivery. Cross-sectional study. Brazil. A total of 176 Internet websites. The term 'caesarean delivery' and 25 synonyms were entered into the most popular search engines in Brazil. The first three pages of hits were downloaded and assessed by two independent investigators using the DISCERN instrument and a content checklist. Quality and completeness of information on caesarean section. A total of 3900 web pages were retrieved and 176 fulfilled the selection criteria. The overall average DISCERN score was 43.6 (±8.9 SD), of a maximum score of 75; 30% of the pages were of poor or very poor quality and 47% were of moderate quality. Most pages scored low, especially in questions related to reliability of the information. The most frequently covered topics were: indications for caesarean section (80% of websites), which did not reflect clinical practice; short-term maternal risks (80%); and potential benefits of caesarean section (56%), including maternal and doctor convenience. Less than half of the websites mentioned perinatal risks and less than one-third mentioned long-term maternal risks associated with caesarean section, such as uterine rupture (17%) or placenta praevia/accreta (12%) in future pregnancies. The quality and completeness of web-based resources in Portuguese about caesarean section were poor to moderate. Pending improvement of these resources, obstetricians should warn pregnant women about these facts and encourage them to discuss what they have read on the Internet about caesarean section. The quality and completeness of information about caesareans is poor in 176 websites used by Brazilians.

ABSTRACT. This investigation examined patterns of heavy drinking among Black and White young adults from a person-centered perspective and linked family and individual factors in adolescence to young adult drinking patterns. The analysis focuses on 331 10th-grade students (168 Whites, 163 Blacks; 51% males) who were followed into young adulthood (ages 20 and 22). Cluster analyses using heavy episodic drinking, drunkenness, and alcohol problems in young adulthood resulted in groups of drinkers with different patterns. Groups were examined across and within race. Associations between young adult drinking groups and adolescent family and individual factors were tested. Groups followed well-established race differences, with Whites clustering into frequent drinking groups more than Blacks, and Blacks clustering into non-heavy drinking groups more than Whites. Further, Black heavy drinkers reported fewer alcohol problems than White counterparts. Parental monitoring, consistent discipline, ethnic identity, and delinquency were associated with adult heavy episodic drinking groups for both races. Monitoring and delinquency, along with parental norms, were associated with drunkenness groups for both races. However, race differences were observed for drunkenness clusters such that attachment was predictive for White clusters, and parental guidelines and discipline were predictive for Black clusters. Large race differences in heavy drinking at young adulthood were confirmed. Family dynamics in 10th grade were identified as important for the development of different drinking patterns in the early 20s, when many individuals have left home, which suggests a key target for substance use prevention programs. (J. Stud. Alcohol Drugs, 75, 839-849, 2014).

In this paper, we develop a novel semi-supervised learning algorithm called active hybrid deep belief networks (AHD), to address the semi-supervised sentiment classification problem with deep learning. First, we construct the previous several hidden layers using restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM), which can reduce the dimension and abstract the information of the reviews quickly. Second, we construct the following hidden layers using convolutional restricted Boltzmann machines (CRBM), which can abstract the information of reviews effectively. Third, the constructed deep architecture is fine-tuned by gradient-descent based supervised learning with an exponential loss function. Finally, active learning method is combined based on the proposed deep architecture. We did several experiments on five sentiment classification datasets, and show that AHD is competitive with previous semi-supervised learning algorithm. Experiments are also conducted to verify the effectiveness of our proposed method with different number of labeled reviews and unlabeled reviews respectively.

Regulating surface soil contamination is a worldwide problem. Many jurisdictions address this problem with regulatory guidance values (RGVs) that specify the maximum allowable soil concentration of contaminants. Pesticides are a particularly important class of soil contaminants because of their intentional toxicity and widespread application to home, garden, and agricultural soils. Pesticides are also difficult to regulate because they are marketed in thousands of products made from hundreds of potentially toxic chemicals. Worldwide, at least 174 jurisdictions from 54 United Nations member states have promulgated more than 19,400 pesticide RGVs. Values may be found for at least 739 pesticides, identified by unique Chemical Abstract Service numbers (CAS No.). Using CAS numbers helps to avoid confusion that may result from alternative product names, chemical nomenclature conventions, or flawed translations. Assembling the set of pesticide RGVs required translating guidance documents authored in 30 different languages. Results indicate that more than 100 RGVs have been promulgated for each of the 22 most frequently regulated pesticides including over 300 values for DDT. Data are presented on the number of pesticides typically addressed by a regulatory jurisdiction and on the size and variability of the RGV datasets for the 200 most frequently regulated pesticides.

[Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 15(1) of Emotion (see record 2015-05076-005). In the article, there was an error in the abstract. The name of author Donnellan was misspelled as Donellan.] [Correction Notice: An Erratum for this article was reported in Vol 15(1) of Emotion (see record 2015-05076-004). In the article, the wrong supplemental file was originally posted. The correct file has now been posted.] As Tversky and Kahneman (1971) noted, effect sizes in smaller samples are inherently unstable. Donnellan [corrected] et al. (2014) in a large sample show that the relation between trait loneliness and warmth extraction through bathing activities is much smaller than in our initial smaller samples. We report further replications of our original findings in samples from India, Israel, and North America, again showing significant correlations between loneliness and physical warmth extraction from bathing and showering; the overall effect being reliable across all three samples, although, consistent with Donnellan [corrected] et al.'s conclusions, smaller than in our original studies. We also respond to criticisms of the original data analyses, noting that removal of the problematic 'bathing frequency' item from the warmth index did not substantially change the results and thus our conclusions from them. We also note that in their 2 studies in which Donnellan [corrected] et al. attempted to most closely follow our original procedure, they did replicate our original results, but not in the other 7 studies in which considerable procedural changes were made. As our new replications reveal variability in bathing and showering preferences and habits around the world, we recommend the inclusion of a wider sample of cultures beyond North American in future research. This research should also focus not only on the narrower question of how loneliness relates to bathing activities but on the broader relation between feelings of social coldness (e.g., after rejection or exclusion) and the seeking of physical warmth (e.g., warm food and drink, thermostat settings).

Misconceptions or uncertainty about the rare disorder of a sibling may cause adjustment problems among children. New knowledge about their misconceptions may enable genetic counselors to provide targeted information and increase siblings' knowledge. This study aims to describe misconceptions and uncertainties of siblings of children with rare disorders. Content analysis was applied to videotapes of 11 support group sessions with 56 children aged 6 to 17. First, children's statements about the disorder (turns) were categorized into the categories "identity," "cause," "cure," "timeline," and "consequences" and then coded as medically "correct," "misunderstood," or "uncertain." Next, turns categorized as "misunderstood" or "uncertain" were analyzed to explore prominent trends. Associations between sibling age, type of disorder, and frequency of misconceptions or uncertainties were analyzed statistically. Approximately 16 % of the children's turns were found to involve misconceptions or uncertainty about the disorder, most commonly about the identity or cause of the disorder. Misconceptions seemed to originate from information available in everyday family life, generalization of lay beliefs, or through difficulties understanding abstract medical concepts. Children expressed uncertainty about the reasons for everyday experiences (e.g. the abnormal behavior they observed). A lack of available information was described as causing uncertainty. Misconceptions and uncertainties were unrelated to child age or type of disorder. The information needs of siblings should always be addressed during genetic counseling, and advice and support offered to parents when needed. Information provided to siblings should be based on an exploration of their daily experiences and thoughts about the rare disorder.

Abstract This study investigated the difference between concurrent and simultaneous use of alcohol and non-medical use of prescription drugs (NMUPD) in relation to mental, social, and health issues. The 544 study participants of the Swiss ongoing Cohort Study on Substance Use Risk Factors (C-SURF) had a combined use of alcohol with NMUPD during the previous 12 months. Alcohol-related problems (i.e., dependence and consequences), as well as mental, social, and health concerns (i.e., depression, general mental/physical health, and social/health consequences), were assessed. The simultaneous use of alcohol and NMUPD proved to be a greater risk factor for mental, social, and health issues than concurrent use. This study adds information regarding simultaneous polydrug use, which results in distinct effects compared to concurrent use, including important social, psychosocial, and health-related consequences.

Abstract Minority status is associated with mental and physical morbidity, substance dependence, and poor outcomes. To compare characteristics and treatment outcomes between patients from two minority groups in Israel (Christians and Muslims) and patients from the majority population (Jews) in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT), we prospectively studied all patients admitted to our clinic between 1993 and 2012 and followed up until 2013; 655 Jews, 67 Christians, and 37 Muslims. Christian patients differed from Jews and Muslims by younger age at admission to MMT, greater prevalence of drug injectors, and a higher proportion of Hepatitis-C and HIV sera positive. Muslims had comparatively less education and a lower proportion of females. The three groups had similar rates of one-year retention (75.9%) and opiate abstinence (68.1%). They also did not differ in long-term retention (up to 20 years): Muslims 5.5 years (95%CI 3.6-7.4), Christians 7.5 years (95%CI 6-9.1), and Jews 7.6 years (95%CI 7-8.2, p = .3). The Hepatitis-C incidence, however, was higher among the 21 admitted Hepatitis-C seronegative minorities (5.0/100 person years) than the 207 Hepatitis-C seronegative non-minority patients (1.7/100 person years, p=0.03). All groups had good treatment outcomes, except for Hepatitis-C seroconversion, which necessitates a specific preventive intervention among the minority groups.

Abstract Among women, methamphetamine (meth) use has been associated with intimate partner violence (IPV); however, few studies have looked at the context of IPV. This qualitative pilot study explored the experiences of meth-using women in Los Angeles County regarding: (1) IPV in their most recent primary relationship; (2) use of contraception and reproductive health services; and (3) meth use during pregnancy. Participants (n=30) were recruited through community advertising and at three addiction treatment centers to participate in 15-20 minute, semi-structured interviews recorded with handwritten transcripts. The team analyzed transcripts for key themes. Participants reported IPV (n=19, 63%) as recipients (50%), perpetrators (40%), and/or both (27%), occurring mainly during active meth use or withdrawal. While most (n=25) continued meth use during at least one pregnancy, some (n=5, 17%) identified pregnancy as a motivation to quit or reduce use, suggesting an opportunity for intervention. Though most women knew about free and low-cost reproductive health services, few accessed them, with 33% citing aspects of meth use itself as a barrier. One-third (45/133) of reported pregnancies were terminated by abortion. Most women (67%) began using before age 18, suggesting need for screening and intervention among adolescents.

Abstract Introduction: Novel Psychoactive Substances (NPSs) are often sold online as "legal" and "safer" alternatives to International Controlled Drugs (ICDs) with captivating marketing strategies. Our aim was to review and summarize such strategies in terms of the appearance of the products, the brand names, and the latest trends in the illicit online marketplaces. Scientific data were searched in PsychInfo and Pubmed databases; results were integrated with an extensive monitoring of Internet (websites, online shops, chat rooms, fora, social networks) and media sources in nine languages (English, French, Farsi, Portuguese, Arabic, Russian, Spanish, and Chinese simplified/traditional) available from secure databases of the Global Public Health Intelligence Network. Evolving strategies for the online diffusion and the retail of NPSs have been identified, including discounts and periodic offers on chosen products. Advertisements and new brand names have been designed to attract customers, especially young people. An increased number of retailers have been recorded as well as new Web platforms and privacy systems. NPSs represent an unprecedented challenge in the field of public health with social, cultural, legal, and political implications. Web monitoring activities are essential for mapping the diffusion of NPSs and for supporting innovative Web-based prevention programmes.

Abstract Background: Medical schools all over the world try to adapt their programs to meet international standards. However, local culture might hamper innovation attempts. To describe challenges in implementing the mini-CEX in Indonesia and investigate its effect on students' clinical competence. The study was conducted in the Internal Medicine and Neurology departments of the Universitas Gadjah Mada, Indonesia. Implementing the mini-CEX into the existing curriculum, while taking the Indonesian culture into account, implied a shift from group to individual feedback. We compared students' final clinical competence before (Internal Medicine n = 122, Neurology n = 183) and after (n = 183 and 186, respectively) the implementation of the mini-CEX, using a modified Objective Structured Long Examination Record (OSLER). The Mann-Whitney test was used to analyze the data. We took power distance and individualism into account to facilitate the implementation process. After implementing the mini-CEX, the OSLER results were significant higher in Internal Medicine (p < 0.05). However, no differences were found in Neurology. By managing the innovation process carefully and taking culture and local context into account, the mini-CEX can be implemented without changing the underlying concept. The shift from group to individual feedback seems to have a positive effect on student learning.

Postdeployment reintegration may present an exceptional challenge to service members and their families; yet, overcoming this challenge seems to strengthen family relationships through a shared sense of purpose. Navigating family reintegration may be an important determinant of long-term psychological well-being. If the needs of military families are to be answered effectively, it is of critical importance to identify the skills that facilitate positive reintegration following deployment. This article proposes psychological flexibility as a group of interrelated skills that could be directly intervened on to facilitate not only resilience but also positive growth and development. This paper focuses on the conceptualization of family reintegration in terms of psychological flexibility, including common deficits observed in this population and potential goals of treatment. Video Abstract.

To describe patterns in the qualitative literature regarding the everyday experience of living with a neurological condition; to identify areas of depth as well as gaps in the existing knowledge base. An extensive search of the literature yielded 474 articles meeting the inclusion criteria. Data extraction, based on scrutiny of both abstract and full text article included country of origin, diagnosis, stated aim, methodological framework/design, participants, and data collection method(s). Studies were categorized into 27 topics within four broad foci. Four broad foci describe the field: impact and management, daily activities and occupations, impact on family, and the healthcare experience. Overall the research is unevenly distributed by diagnosis; some are well represented while others are the subject of little research. Even diagnoses well represented in quantity can be limited in breadth. Possible explanations for the patterns of emphasis include: a focus on issues and problems, highlighted points of contact between patients and healthcare providers, and ability of participants to voice their views. The literature is also characterized by limited across diagnoses research or that comparing the experience of people with different diagnoses. There is a need for more research in particular diagnoses; more varied data collection methods and acknowledgement of ethnicity, gender, discrimination, and social inequalities.

Consolation is grief's traditional amelioration, but contemporary bereavement theory lacks a conceptual framework to include it. The article begins to develop that framework. The article argues that grief is inter-subjective, even at the biological level. Consolation and grief happen in the same inter-subjective space. Material from the histories of several religions sets the article in a cross-cultural and historical environment. The article examines consolation in interpersonal relationships, and then moves to consolation in cultural/religious resources that range from the literal image of God as an idealized parent to the abstract architecture of Brahm's Requiem. The most common consolation in the histories of religions comes within continuing bonds that are accessed in a wide variety of beliefs, rituals, and devotional objects. The article closes by briefly drawing the connection between consolation and faith.

Increased ADHD symptomology and lower IQ have been reported in internationally adopted (IA) children compared to non-adopted peers (Hostinar, Stellern, Schaefer, Carlson & Gunnar, 2012; Kreppner, O'Connor & Rutter, 2001). However, it is unclear whether these outcomes are due to institutional deprivation specifically or to co-occurring micronutrient deficiencies that disrupt brain development (Fuglestad, Rao & Georgieff, 2008b). In this study, IA children were compared to children raised in their biological families to examine differences in ADHD symptomology and IQ 2.5-5 years post-adoption and to assess the contributions of iron deficiency (ID) and duration of deprivation to these cognitive outcomes. ADHD symptoms (parent- and experimenter-reported) and IQ were evaluated in 88 IA (M = 62.1 months, SD = 2.4) and 35 non-adopted children (M = 61.4 months, SD = 1.6). IA children were assessed 29-64 months post-adoption (M = 41.9 months, SD = 10.2). ID was assessed during the initial post-adoption medical visit in 69 children, and children were classified into four groups by iron status, ranging from normal to ID anemia (most severe). IA children had greater ADHD symptomology, p < .01, and lower IQ, p = .001, than non-adopted children. Within the IA group, children with more severe ID at adoption had greater ADHD symptomology, r(69) = 0.40, p = .001, and lower IQ, r(68) = -0.28, p < .05. Duration of institutional care was positively correlated with ADHD symptoms, r(86) = .28, p < .01, but not IQ, r(85) = -.08, p = .52. Longitudinal results indicate improvement in IQ from 12 months post-adoption to age 5 for children with greater ID severity at adoption and longer duration of institutional care but no improvement in ADHD symptoms. These results signify continuing effects of early deprivation and ID on ADHD symptoms and IQ years after adoption. A video abstract of this article can be viewed at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vUFDAS3DD1c.

This paper examined whether recall of childhood trauma was associated with adult alcohol consumption in a sample of Australians with low housing security. The secondary aim was to examine whether risky alcohol consumption predicted subsequent housing instability. Sociodemographic factors were examined as potential moderators of these associations. This paper utilised data collected through the Journeys Home Study, a longitudinal study of a representative sample of individuals who were homeless or at risk of homelessness. This paper focused on 1224 participants aged 18 years and over. Data on alcohol use, childhood trauma and sociodemographic characteristics were collected through interviews at baseline. Homeless status at 6- to 12-month follow-up was assessed via interview. Logistic regression modelling was used to examine associations of alcohol consumption with childhood abuse, sociodemographic factors and changes in homelessness status. Self-reported recall of childhood experiences of violence was more likely among current drinkers, risky or not, than among abstainers. Recall of childhood neglect was more common among abstainers than among risky drinkers. The relationships between recall of childhood trauma and adult alcohol consumption are likely to be complex. Risky consumption may contribute to continuing homelessness among adults with unstable housing. [Correction added on 29 December 2014, after first online publication: The Results, and Discussion and Conclusion sections in the abstract have been replaced.].

Our previous work identified deficits in interference processing and learning/memory in past suicide attempters who were currently depressed and medication-free. In this study, we extend this work to an independent sample studied at various stages of illness and treatment (mild symptoms, on average) to determine if these deficits in past suicide attempters are evident during a less severe clinical state. A total of 80 individuals with a past history of major depression and suicide attempt were compared with 81 individuals with a history of major depression and no lifetime suicide attempts on a battery of neurocognitive measures assessing attention, memory, abstract/contingent learning, working memory, language fluency and impulse control. Past attempters performed more poorly in attention, memory and working memory domains, but also in an estimate of pre-morbid intelligence. After correction for this estimate, tests that had previously distinguished past attempters - a computerized Stroop task and the Buschke Selective Reminding Test - remained significantly worse in attempters. In a secondary analysis, similar differences were found among those with the lowest levels of depression (Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score <10), suggesting that these deficits may be trait markers independent of current symptomatology. Deficits in interference processing and learning/memory constitute an enduring defect in information processing that may contribute to poor adaptation, other higher-order cognitive impairments and risk for suicidal behavior.

The increased demand for facial cosmetic surgery has come from a more diverse, informed, and selective patient population from all walks of life. Virtually no two patients have the same background or cosmetic objectives. However, the classic tenets of beauty including phi, symmetry, averageness, youthfulness, and sexual dimorphism can be applied to persons of all ethnicities to assist in objectifying the abstract concept.

Peer reviewers' knowledge of author identity may influence review content, quality, and recommendations. Therefore, the International Journal of Radiation Oncology, Biology, Physics ("Red Journal") implemented double-blinded peer review in 2011. Given the relatively small size of the specialty and the high frequency of preliminary abstract presentations, we sought to evaluate attitudes, the efficacy of blinding, and the potential impact on the disposition of submissions. In May through August 2012, all Red Journal reviewers and 1 author per manuscript completed questionnaires regarding demographics, attitudes, and perceptions of success of blinding. We also evaluated correlates of the outcomes of peer review. Questionnaires were received from 408 authors and 519 reviewers (100%). The majority of respondents favored double blinding; 6% of authors and 13% of reviewers disagreed that double blinding should continue in the Red Journal. In all, 50% of the reviewers did not suspect the identity of the author of the paper that they reviewed; 19% of reviewers believed that they could identify the author(s), and 31% suspected that they could. Similarly, 23% believed that they knew the institution(s) from which the paper originated, and 34% suspected that they did. Among those who at least suspected author identity, 42% indicated that prior presentations served as a clue, and 57% indicated that literature referenced did so. Of those who at least suspected origin and provided details (n=133), 13% were entirely incorrect. Rejection was more common in 2012 than 2011, and submissions from last authors with higher H-indices (>21) were more likely to survive initial review, without evidence of interactions between submission year and author gender or H-index. In a relatively small specialty in which preliminary research presentations are common and occur in a limited number of venues, reviewers are often familiar with research findings and suspect author identity even when manuscript review is blinded. Nevertheless, blinding appears to be effective in many cases, and support for continuing blinding was strong.

The process by which societies adapt to increasing knowledge about the mental and physical capacities of animals and the ways in which they are affected by human activities has been described as a journey. Different countries and regions are at various stages of this journey, and will take a unique path, depending on their specific social and cultural dynamics. However, all participants are unified by an increasing awareness of, and concern for, animal welfare. This journey has been characterised by a number of landmark events, one of which was the release of the Five Freedoms concept. Although aspirational and abstract, as it did not outline specific practical goals, nonetheless this concept became a catalyst for moving animal welfare thinking in a new direction, and set up a number of important targets for research. This eventually led to a key shift in thinking from a focus on biological functioning and resources, to ways of assessing welfare outcomes in terms of animals' experiences, i.e. their affective states. Behaviour science played an important role in the interpretation of animals' affective experiences, receiving compelling support from parallel studies in affective neuroscience. An important aspect of our understanding of animal welfare is that affective states can be negative or positive. Enabling animals to perform specific behaviours at key times when they are needed is central to the achievement of positive affective states. Another important event has been the development of practical ways to shift the spectrum of affective states towards a positive balance and their incorporation into welfare codes and regulations. The recent focus on positive affective states does not mean that negative experiences should be given less attention. In fact, in those countries that are at the early stages of the journey, improving function and productivity may be the most effective way to promote some important aspects of animal welfare. For example, alleviating pain is a useful entry point. Finally, it is important that the pace of the journey, in terms of public awareness and shifts in understanding, be supported by high-quality science that is rigorously assessed and validated in its practical application to the management of animal welfare.

If novel health services are to be implemented and sustained in practice, the perceptions and views of patients form a critical part of their evaluation. The aims of this study were to explore patient's perceptions and experiences with a pharmacy asthma service and to investigate if there was a change over time. Interviews and focus groups were conducted with patients participating in the asthma service at three time points. Data were transcribed verbatim and thematically analyzed using a framework approach. The service led to an enhanced awareness and understanding of asthma, changes in participants' beliefs and attitudes towards asthma management, changes in asthma-related health behaviours and improved self-efficacy. Participants were very positive about the service and the role of the pharmacist in asthma management. There was a shift in participant perceptions and views, from being at an abstract level in those who had completed just one visit of the service to a more experiential level in those who had experienced the entire comprehensive asthma service. A sustained experience/multiple visits in a service may lead to more concrete changes in patient perceptions of severity, beliefs, health behaviours and enhanced self-efficacy and control. The study highlights a need for such asthma services in the community.

This study describes rates of self-inflicted and assault-related injury hospitalizations in areas with a relatively high percentage of residents identifying as First Nations, Métis and Inuit, by injury cause, age group and sex. All separation records from acute in-patient hospitals for Canadian provinces and territories excluding Quebec were obtained from the Discharge Abstract Database. Dissemination areas with more than 33% of residents reporting an Aboriginal identity in the 2006 Census were categorized as high-percentage Aboriginal-identity areas. Overall, in high-percentage Aboriginal-identity areas, age-standardized hospitalization rates (ASHRs) for self-inflicted injuries were higher among females, while ASHRs for assault-related injuries were higher among males. Residents of high-percentage Aboriginal-identity areas were at least three times more likely to be hospitalized due to a self-inflicted injury and at least five times more likely to be hospitalized due to an assault-related injury compared with those living in low-percentage Aboriginal-identity areas. Future research should examine co-morbidities, socio-economic conditions and individual risk behaviours as factors associated with intentional injury hospitalizations.

Abstract This paper focuses on the Global Youth Coalition for HIV/AIDS (GYCA), a collaboration of young people who utilize the Internet to organize and inform the global youth HIV/AIDS social movement. We used a trans-disciplinary conceptual framework guided by the diffusion of innovations approach to explore factors that influence online participation among the coalition's members and to explain perceived effects of participation. We used a randomized stratified sampling strategy to conduct an online 7 week survey of GYCA's members (n=275). Descriptive statistics revealed that the majority of participants were from Africa (∼54%) and Asia (∼24%), with an average age of 27 years. Multiple linear regression analyses showed that participation in the e-consultations (R(2)=0.39, p<0.001) was influenced by a greater number of factors compared to the listserv (R(2)=0.20, p<0.001). Online participation significantly influenced perceptions about the coalition's social networking utility (R(2)=0.21, p<0.001). Perceived social networking utility significantly explained perceived effects on program areas such as knowledge sharing (R(2)=0.49, p<0.001), capacity building (R(2)=0.48, p<0.001), and political advocacy (R(2)=0.44, p<0.001). We concluded that a range of factors shapes participation in online health social movements. Initiatives such as GYCA need regular, intensive assessments to understand these factors for better tailoring their online activities to members' needs and for greater impact.

Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that has stigmatised people affected since ancient times until now. This has resulted in difficulties in the lives of those affected. This literature review was conducted to understand the concept, causes, and determinants of stigma in leprosy. Electronic searches were undertaken using PubMed (Medline), CINAHL and PsycInfo databases. The internet was searched through Google Scholar for papers not found in these databases. The main inclusion criteria were papers related to stigma or leprosy written in Thai or English. After searching the databases, 84 papers were identified, 3 were removed because of duplication and parallel publication, and 20 were removed on abstract screening. After reading 61 full papers, 7 were excluded. Finally, 54 were included in this review. It was found that the concept of stigma involves not only characteristics considered undesirable, but also the social context of the individual or group. Reported causes and determinants of stigma related to leprosy are the external manifestations of the disease, cultural and religious beliefs, fear of transmission, association with people considered inferior and public health-related interventions. Stigma is a complex phenomenon that has multiple causes, often linked to the cultural context in which it occurs. Despite this, many similarities were found in leprosy-related stigma across countries and cultures, which would facilitate the development of interventions.

Abstract Background: Despite parent and physician reports of inadequate skill development, there are few guidelines for training the pediatric care team in sharing life-altering information (SLAI), i.e., "breaking bad news." The necessary skills for SLAI differ between pediatric and adult medical environments. We set out to establish evidence-based guidelines and multidisciplinary team training for SLAI in pediatrics, and to demonstrate an improvement in immediate self-efficacy of training participants. A multidisciplinary task force, which included parent participation and feedback, and which received input from parents of patients in multiple pediatric subspecialties, crafted children's hospitalwide guidelines for SLAI. A one-hour training module on the guidelines was presented to several multidisciplinary pediatric team audiences; 159 voluntary pre- and post-presentation self-efficacy surveys were collected. Responses were analyzed by paired t-test (within groups) and ANOVA (between groups). All evaluated groups of care team members reported significant improvements in self-efficacy among four learning objectives after the training. Medical trainees, newer physicians, and nonphysician (e.g., midlevel providers including nurses) team members reported the greatest improvements, regardless of whether they had received previous training in SLAI. We propose pediatric-focused SLAI guidelines based on a modified SPIKES protocol. Focus on patient- and family-centered, culturally sensitive pediatric practices should be the basis for development of training that can be periodically reinforced. Future comprehensive training will incorporate experiential learning. SLAI requires a skill set that benefits from lifelong learning.

